Here are some comments that really helped me. Helped me to see there are people out there, just like me.

- "The strange thing about suicide, is that it actually feels good to fantasize about it. As a depressed person, it's n uplifting feeling kowing that i can end all the madness at any time I want. Knowing that I have every justification in the world to end my life, yet I don't. That is power."
- "Depression is living in a body that fights to survive, with a mind that tries to die."
- "There's an aspect about suicide/suicidal ideation that I never really see people talk about. When people say they "just want the pain to end", I relate, but in a different way. I dont' want to not be anything, I want to be everything. My experience of suicidal ideation is wanting so desperately to live and be alive, but feeling like it will never come to pass. I would wail in the late hours of the night, sobbint that I want to live. I want to love and travel. I want to explore. I want to breathe. I am desperate to be alive, and yet, I feel like a dool that will never get that satisfation. Like if pinnochio never had ta possibiliyt of becoming a "real boy" and being alive.  What makes me want to die is the soul-crushing feeling that I will never get to truly live. That I won't live a happy life, and teh rotting inside of me will never go away. That it will haunt me for the rest of the time I am on this Earth. When all I want to do is be alive, the most reasonable end seems to be death."
- 