I believe it is my life purpose to share my existential wisdom.

I am isolated in my life. I'm 23, I have so many reasons to end it, but I see these youtube channels of people with far less than me, and they are stronger, more resillient, and happier. Perhaps life had to break me so I could develop empathy, and humility.

We live in a time where humanity "seems" to have gotten worse, but if you take a peek at history, you realize, we were always violent monkeys. Now, I saw "we" becuase unfortunately, we are all capable of evil... it's one of the darkest, scariest observations... and everyday... I want someone to prove this idea false... becusae it honestly scares me. But the first step in healing is acknowleding... becuase then we are aware of what is real... and we can make real, permanant changes.

Let me start by saying this: the only thing that is keeping me alive, is my life mission. My life mission, which is to share my knowledge, wisdom, hope, and experience, with as many poeople as my work can reach. What exactly do I do? I have always loved music, and video games, stories, art, and anythign that is creatively expressive. In the early years of my life, I did these things out of joy, now, I do them becuase they're the only things keeping me alive. Speaking of which, I think about suicide alot. I think about death, the tragedy of life, good & evil, and if there exists hope to keep living. My work is primarily focused on finding that hope for myself. I don't do this to try and save anyone, If i can't even save myself from being swallowed up by the abyss within us all.

This website serves as my public wiki... a beacon of hope, amongst your digital travellings. I like to imagine all of us as having two selves: the physical self, and the virtual self. When we experience things through a screen, we are like digital travellers in a world that does not exist. The amount of steps I've walked in the digital world vs. my physical life is not only worrying, but existentially tragic. We human beings were not designed to be indoors all day, distracted by machines... and yet... some of us are born different. We desire to soar with the stars... unfortunately, our bodies have been given very primitive, monkey technology (it's not nature's fault!)