# The power of stories
Honestly, I would try to figure out how to share the most important things that have saved my life, but in story form, so that it doesn't sound like a human being is lecturing you, but rather you can hear the broken pain from a character that you will connect with. Possibly more than my character, my personality, because I struggle with self-esteem and I don't want that to get in the way. Or maybe it's not getting in the way, maybe it's adding to the humanness. But essentially, a belief that has saved my life recently is believing that these are not our real bodies, and we are a consciousness that comes from a different dimension of existence, and the purpose of life is to evolve the soul, and that's why pain and tragedy and suffering is so brutal. Things can be so awful and evil that we don't understand them, and that's interesting to me because we want to understand them. At least that's the curiosity that drove my teenage self to witness the worst parts of humanity and regret ever having existed, and that led me down a journey of deep integration and trauma remembrance and figuring out what does it mean to be a good human being when religions let you down and when human beings are no longer trustworthy. Where do you go when you don't even feel anything inside anymore?

What do you do when you no longer have a reason to exist anymore? When all of the projects, and all of the work, and all of the ideas, and all of your beliefs never really helped you in your darkest, most depressed, desperate moments? What do you do? Who do you turn to? Do you pray to God? That's certainly something that has helped me, but it has also helped me to believe that I'm part of God, and these are not our real bodies, and we're here to evolve, not only witness, but to create. And that's what I believe the Hebrews tried to say in their ancient texts, specifically the verse of Genesis where God says man was created in their image. Now man is like one of us. That's the most mysterious part of the entire Bible for me, and I care more about that single book than all of the 50 plus authors that come after Genesis. I mean, there's no religion that tries to explain what we human beings are, and where we come from, and why we were created, and why evil exists. Genesis essentially is like literally the genesis of human existence and existence as a whole, and that's what helps me further to remember that our beliefs as human beings are what program us in a way. The things you believe will dictate what you choose, and that has more of an influence in your life than anything else, I believe. I know this because just by questioning the things I believe in and interrogating my beliefs and my memories, I've lessened and healed a lot of depression that I was chronically living with. But ultimately, if I've learned anything in my life, it's that there is no reason for existence if you don't love. And the reason love feels so good is because it solves a lot of problems in nature, like self-esteem, the desire to feel wanted, the desire to feel good, euphoria, and a lot of human psychological necessities that are only solved through real love. You can see through real love. You can see what happens to us human beings if we don't have the correct environment or the resources we need to thrive, because we aren't just creatures of bone. We can't just survive by fish and water. It's like we're burdened with consciousness that tries to understand the constellations and the skies, but a body that is humiliated like animals, and it paints a very traumatic, glorious picture in my mind. But I also remember to keep it playful. A lot of my stories are hilarious in their nature. For example, there's a book called The Kid and the Ape, which I'm working on, which essentially is a little kid that falls into a storybook, kind of like Alice in Wonderland falling into the rabbit hole. And the kid visits a world where monkeys run civilization, and they look at human beings as such tragic creatures that they can't be taken seriously. And the monkeys are like the biggest comedic relief I have in my life, because their cute, funny expressions are more human than a lot of people I encounter in my daily life.  :~)

Honestly, I could sit here all night sharing with you the things that I've discovered and learned, but I also realize I can't live my life like it's a science research paper. You have to, at a certain point, apply your theories and actually experiment your hypothesis. You know, it's not all about wisdom and knowledge collecting. That's something that I warn against in a lot of my stories. If anything, we human beings are creatures of yin and yang. We thrive on balance between chaos and order. You cannot have too much of one and too little of the other. And you most definitely cannot have pure light or pure darkness, because that's impossible. And there's something deeply embedded in existence that repels purity like that. I don't think it's good or bad. It just is. And finding a balance itself, that's good for me!!