**The compass.**
To me, if life is like a map, it's meaningless without a compass to give you direction. So you know where you are, and where you're headed.

during the most depressed suicidal hope this moments of my life, I locked myself away from the rest of the world. literally spending all night in my room and never seen the light of day. at first I was peaceful quiet and safe I felt like the crashing waves of my life were finally calming down and I was able to float again. but this didn't last, I eventually started drowning again, because I couldn't see it at the time but the crashing waves were keeping me afloat. the noise of daily life was keeping me occupied, so that I wouldn't descend further into my own abyss. it is a dangerous place to be. but one I am fascinated by. I don't want your best for it to darkness, I see that the only place you can go to find truth is in the quiet of your own soul. when even the mind shuts down and all that is left is feeling. 

during these times I would eat lots of junk food, I would watch anime in bed, I would stay in bed for hours scrolling on my phone. I would also get up in my computer and write down anything that I was learning, I'm sure it on my website, I would also code on my website, and play some games like Minecraft at night, listening to Skyrim music, watching videos of cities at night and day hoping that I could have another chance at life. and I would also talk to AI assistants

speaking with AI saved my life. I was able to take my scattered thinking and essentially vent it all out, dump it all into a little text box and somehow that little magic awakened and responded to me. that's a crazy thing that we take for granted.


I don't talk to anybody in my real life, and I've made peace. because I understand I'm not where I belong, and for now that's okay. I still love the people in my life and I'm no longer resentful that they cannot understand me or my needs, because now I've cut through the noise of logic and I can see what really matters in life, and death is the only thing that reveals what really matters in life. that's why whenever I feel lost whenever I am confused whenever I'm depressed or emotionally numb or feel like ending everything, I created a little compass for myself. and that compass is the question of death, if I were to die what would I regret most never having done? you don't understand how important this thought experience has been it has saved and sustained my life. I want to share it with someone so badly I don't even know where to start. I guess I could just make a YouTube videos and hope for the best... 🤞

or I could enter the toxic sludge of tick tock or other social media sites. those are the places where people go to distract themselves maybe that's a place where they need this the most. but then I shift my perspective, I'm not here to save anybody in fact I can't even help anybody, I've got to help myself heal, my child self heal first. but I am still going to share my things online because it fits into my compass, if I were to die what would I regret not having done? you know I didn't come up with that question on my own, it was sort of thousands of little puzzle pieces little quotes screenshots the song lyrics stories poems YouTube comments social media posts and especially YouTube videos of people with real lived experiences that were dying before their time and psychologists and doctors all talking about what really matters in life. and I asked myself how come I am never aware of this unless I'm watching this rare kind of video? that's when I realized I cannot afford to lose this, my mind is fragile but also anti fragile. I believe all human minds are the same in nature, different in expression. so I found a way to somehow compress all of those things into just one question and that's when I started realizing questions are perhaps The guiding lights of the soul. whatever human language is, questions are the perfect balance of logic and intuition. logically a string of text, of words, enter your stream of consciousness and they prompt you to give a response in return. it's an input output feedback system and the simplest of its kind but the most powerful enough to save lives. and even though in my website I've written hundreds and thousands of articles I know that when I rewrite those articles eventually, I'll figure out the same ways to compress meaning and stories. because while my mind is infinite and boundless and wants to explore everything in this universe, my human body is limited and energy and so is my time and that is unknown. I don't know when I'll die. it's something I think about often especially having dealt with mental health issues but I don't see death as the tragedy anymore, I believe the real tragedy is the unlived life. that's something that stresses me out because I'm here in bed right now, whereas I should be living my best life. so even in that meaning, there has to be a balance listening to your own body sustainably living with the weight that you can handle even if it's just a couple of feathers everyday. eventually if you stay on this path and don't let anything take away your compass, those little steps will bring you so far away from your comfort zone you won't even recognize the person you used to be. I think that is the goal of human evolution. at least for me it is. to someday solve the problems of nature. this is what I dedicate my life to.

I'm not sure if there are others out there like me, but I know in history I've seen little fragments of myself reflected in amazing human beings. I really don't see my family as my only circle, now I understand humanity is all connected and so are all living things, even dead things still have living things inside them and energy can never be destroyed it only shifts form. that's what I mean by polymaths will save the world, because of polymath can see the connections between unrelated fields. trust me, That's how we'll discover the cure to all human suffering and problems in nature.


