Yami enters his dream world. There, he sees lands of water, trees, fruits, and people. The air feels like heaven. The skies are painted with chromas of purple, orange & pink. Towards the horizon, Yami sees giant rock statues collased on the ground. He walks up close to them. Yami is scared by a native kid, his age: "Who are you." The kid asks. Yami feels freightened, he tries to run back, but the kid jumps infront of him. "Hey. Why are you so scared man?" Yami's heart is galloping through his chest. 'You kids came from the city. That place is no good. The things i've seen... kid... it's... it kills... slowly. First they start by the air, then the water, then the news, then the brainwa-' A strong woman interrupts him: "That's enough." The kid dissapointingly says: "Aw, but lady Katerina, he came from the city, you know we don't let-" The woman stops him: "He's... one of us." The kid grabs Yami's shoulder: "Hey. I'm sorry I scared you. We just... we just dont' see many of you city people here anymore." Yami's eyes are terrified, as he tries to calm down and trust these people.


Yami asks: "What is this place?" The kid responds calmly: "I can't... tell you. Cause... I don't know either. All I know is... i'm supposed to protect you." Yami is confused: "Protect me? From who?" The kid points at the giant statues that Yami saw before, slowly, he turns his head in the direction... and his eyes expand with glory. The kid says to him: "Those giants? Those are alive. Those are the memories of people who don't exist anymore. We keep them safe here... in this world... nothing dies. We remember everything & everything lives forever... Well... as much as we can." Yami looks at the boy... he reminds Yami of someone...

