and essentially we're realizing this, pain is part of life. pain is inevitable. pain is embedded in the very fabric of being. in muscles in bones. pain should not be a shock. pain is a normal part of life just like the seasons of nature, if you have pure Sun all the time, crops and plants die and the ecosystem pretty much gets destabilized and everything dies. and so cyclical seasons and cycles seem to stabilize pattern and rhythm, almost like breath. your tension and release. duality. speaking of duality, we always come back to the beautiful symbol of yin yang, from ancient Chinese religion / philosophy. and basically, it is only because of pain, that you can experience any kind of happiness whatsoever. it's only because of all of the failed projects and ideas, that you had that one brilliant eureka. life seems to be a duality of paradoxes and I think the only way to not become resentful or bitter or cynical or nihilistic, is to simply accept that this the way life goes. just like that Lil Uzi song. and most importantly, if pain is inevitable, then you need to have a reason to not only experience pain, but to justify suffering. 

suffering is separate from pain, as we understand it. something that only emotional life forms experience. and I think it's our mission, not to reduce suffering, but to reduce our own suffering and then share that externally. and then that is a symbiotic relationship. our work helps us heal, and it helps someone else heal. I think the attitude should be healing, not reduction of suffering. if we solely focus on reducing suffering, it's too ambiguous and there are more harmful ways to reduce suffering than there are positive ways. 

we're also realizing that theory and human intelligence has a hard limit, a terminal velocity. like nothing in life is perfect. there will never be a perfect belief or idea or system or philosophy, and so the point is not to remove suffering or pain from life but rather to integrate. 

I think that's really our only sustainable answer. and that's really what yen Yang is about. integration of coexistence and paradoxes. 
and for me personally, love just if I suffering. I would sacrifice myself for someone I love. paradoxically, because I love myself, I sacrifice for myself. for the parts of me that are desperate for life. for the parts of me that are desperate for Truth for healing for meaning. for the parts of me that are desperate to share and to become. love is the only thing that justifies suffering in this world. and to me Jesus is Love. 


