The human being seems to have, from what I can observe, this hidden hunger and it has to come from our social structures I think because it's like this hunger this desire to be an individual and to be part of a world that is at least livable, survivable, optimally it's the ideal balance between chaos and order, however circumstances are usually never according to our plans and that's not because there's something against us but rather we don't understand the engine of life and so we don't know what could possibly go wrong, and there are so many free radicals Andy agents that we just can't comprehend with our limited senses and somehow, we don't need to we survive all of the chaos 

And Jordan fuse and said something recently which I heard, he was essentially paraphrasing the work of a Frederich Nietzsche , the will to power. which actually is more about the nature of the human being. And essentially he said the human being is less of a structure of South preservation and more of a will that wants to exhaust itself. And that was a very interesting idea because I was recognized this in my own life previously and so I understand what he's saying.

but no practically what the hectic is even mean? I think what it means is that we want to live in integrated life where you are an integrated version the best version of yourself so to speak, but not in a self-improvement way, more of like a self-realization. And you can't do that by focusing solely on yourself so by being part of an external world it's like we are constantly reminded that life is not according to the world inside and imagination, that can be liberating and suffocating. I think the balance is found in the work we're doing here.
