I don't know if physics quite encapsulates in this phenomenon, but systems emergence, specifically synergy, is perhaps one of the most important properties in systems. and this property is neutral by nature, synergy can either explode exponentially in complexity that is unmanageable, or it can explode exponentially in complexity that adds, rather than subtract. so perhaps this is a theory of subtractive / additive complexity and systems synergy as a fundamental property of systems. now where this becomes even more significant is in human life, especially when making decisions or working on complex problems or even making music, I've noticed the same patterns across multiple systems and domains; synergy is one fundamental property of a system, which directly determines the proportion of sustainability, longevity, manageability, etc. these are all life cycle terminologies, because a system is by definition an engine with life cycles. this is really important because it means that several domains of human life, whether it is creating music, or solving problems, or managing one's life, are all systems that exhibit this property of synergy and emergence. Alice is really interesting because, I've observed that when creating music, the natural approach is the only sustainable approach. as soon as music becomes analytical or heavily centered on specialized tasks, the baseline of human operation is no longer creating sound, but it is managing sound, building product, analyzing and studying. those are all fundamentally different systems, different had spaces so to speak. that's branching into a different conversation, because I'm focusing on systems emergence and synergy as a property of manageable complexity. arguably, something becomes unworkable by human beings when it's complexity exceeds our abilities. this is significant because I think it's one of the most fundamental parts of human life, when something becomes too complicated for us to deal with; by definition it becomes unsustainable. I think according to physics or thermodynamics, this would be something like the second law, where a system is decaying in energy resources. it is not necessarily a definition of entropy, which is a fundamental property of the universe in which things naturally decay into chaos and disorder. that's also another important idea, but I think what's more important is understanding that systems emergence and synergy, is an aspect that we human beings can understand and can influence. and when something is actionable it's more important to understand. so back to my example of music, when the musician is creating music, regardless of expertise level, they are working with a system they fundamentally do not fully comprehend. incomplete models. the product of the song is unknown, like an architect constructing a building, and the blueprint at the same time. I think this is important because the role of an architect is to design a blueprint, the role of a civil engineer is to follow the blueprints and apply it properly, to turn instruction into reality. that's really fascinating because creative Fields like making music or illustrating, often deal with this phenomenon, which I call "author/reader mode"; in which we oscillate between experiencing the work we are creating, like a reader, or authoring the work we are creating. this is similar to an architect and a civil engineer, and because we cannot work in parallel, we alsolete between these. and that is a form of a life cycle in and of itself. so if projects, if the process, if work itself has a life cycles, this is what helped me to understand that the emergence of complexity either becomes additive or destructive/subtractive. in music, we are working with incomplete models, and yet over time, the music gains complexity and Sonic richness. frequencies become layered and dynamics, rhythms start interplaying with one another in unpredictable ways. what was once a simple little musical idea, eventually evolves into sophisticated sketches of symphonic expression. similar to an illustrator or an artist, going about the creative process. what's even more fascinating than systems synergizing and emerging complexity, is how things begin to harmonize and resonate, and not only happens when there are patterns; I hypothesize. meaning, when we can establish little anchors of repetition, little segments of simplicity, whereas there is disorder and novelty ask the system synergizes and emerges complexity. it almost resembles a fractal, in which self repeating patterns form deeply complex structures, but eventually the layers of resolution become stages of evolution so to speak. and this is even more fascinating because it describes how we human beings eventually deal with extremely complex structures and problems in life, and we do not become collapsed by a chaos, because whether we understand it or not, we are working with architectural structure, at the level of process. when systems emerge and synergize like this, it does not happen by accident, it is through the work of the human being, contributing and co-authoring with a system that remains fundamentally impossible to fully understand, and yet we do not need to fully understand a system, in order to work with the complexity, and in order to build structure. this is fascinating because Michael polanyi has this quote, on tacit knowledge; we know more than we can tell. but tacit knowledge is embodied, intuitive, integrated. almost like inverse kinematics in animation, where a hierarchy of Bones follows logical structure according to rules, even if the instruction is not precisely crafted for every single interaction. that phenomenon, interaction, relation, rules, I think that's where programming and computation really exists. in fact a physics engine is fundamentally impossible without mathematical calculation. not because the human had to calculate every interaction and principle, but rather, because we human beings, with systems like physics engines, realize that by describing relationships, properties and interactions — essentially databases of things in a world—we could work with complexity that would otherwise be impossible to handcraft. and that's where the real mathematics comes in, at the level of interpolation, calculation between properties, etc. essentially it's doing the heavy lifting between information objects in space. without getting to Lost in the philosophy here, essentially; physics engines are a computational example of synergy and emergence manifesting in a system. harmonizing and eventually producing unpredictable realistic motion, that was not otherwise calculated. but why does this matter? because I believe it's less about the physics engine itself, and more about the underlying system of the physics engine, as previously described. it is a form of human beings interacting with systems that are more complex and we can ever understand, and yet we operate fundamentally at the level of; - object properties in general - rules and logic about the world and interactions in general; but strictly limited to first-depth interactions (e.g., what happens when rubber material smashes with metal.) - creating a system so that interpolation is the synergy, e.g., we do not calculate or define interaction between rubber, metal, force of gravity, wind turbulence, aerodynamics, drag force, etc. those are simply too many variables to calculate for each object of a world. instead, they are handled separately as individual objects. very similar to how we human being study chemistry, by isolating variables as chemicals, and then compounds, and then forming systems of understanding that fundamentally require synergy and emergence. because again we cannot map everything on our own, we rely on the systems to interpolate for us. according to the laws of physics / thermodynamics, a system is a set of Life cycles, of which require energy resource consumption, and energy supply. not only does this mean this is how human life operates at the energy level, but this is how sustainable human life functions logically... - when systems do not exceed our capacity to supply energy - when systems do not consume more energy than output they produce ... I'm still working on my theories of fundamental laws of systems, perhaps cybernetics already discovered this, so I don't want to reinvent the wheel here! in conclusion, this is significant for a daily human life because we benefit from systems that harmonize complexity synergy and emergence, and it may describe why some things are sustainable, and other things are not. like human relationships, or schedules, or work, or professions. so it's not just locked into the elegant equations of physics; this implications span into real human life, and that's what's fascinating! I think the most coherent summary of this, that is applicable to daily life, is; we human beings work with more complex systems than we can understand, by relying on synergy and emergence of systems, patterns, and resonance/harmony, of which systems eventually exceed our capacity to fully predict or understand. I think that helps me understand why music is so beautiful to create and to experience. but also why it's essentially impossible to systemize the process of creating music, because analyzing music, and creating music, and planning music, and organizing music, are all fundamentally different life cycles of the system of music! and in this study, I proposed my hypothesis, if this is true for music, and it is also apparent for project management, then what other forms of complexity do we human beings face, in which we can benefit from these observations of synergy and emergence? that's probably the most important real world implication I can formulate from this study right now. because it's the actionable hypothesis. That's The power of a good question; it prompts action. ...but honestly this is a discussion for another conversation! Robert Greene released a book called 48 laws of power. we need a book on the fundamental laws of systems. that would be radically more positively influential for our world. ... politics aside...