this single hypothesis is probably what drives most of my local software engineering projects... I believe this discussion becomes most productive when we research other areas of engineering, other complex fields, as well as our previous discussions... because software engineering seems to be a rabbit hole, whereas the underlying physical hardware, the conduit is almost optimally engineered and strictly constrained... and yet... software is indefinitely extensible, which is the main problem I'm emphasizing... software and hardware are interlinked... yet they are almost two completely different ontological evolutions! 

before this Theory becomes too complex, this is the essential hypothesis we can study... "why does the rate of expression, exceed the rate of craft?" I think this may be, because of the problem at substrate level; programming languages today, are designed to directly interface with computer hardware instruction... that's incredibly useful as an abstraction over assembly... but the problem with this, is that much of technology and software today, is no longer memory management or computer science; today we see multimodal, multi-dimensional interface languages, essentially providing a communication substrate between multiple technologies, from one device; code as language. but this code really a language? or is it represented as text, because it is computationally effective? what would code, running at native human cognitive resolution, look like? perhaps it would definitely be a language, since, given our previous discussions, language is essentially the cartography of information and the natural world, so language possesses the ability to interface between a common symbolic ancestor (grammar, vocabulary, alphabet, linguistics as an interface) and complex information, about the world, ourselves, experience, or general information.

I think this still does not quite illustrate the primary problem of software engineering, "why because expression exceed engineering?" 

given a recent conversation where I proposed a hypothetical model "3 ontological modes of human cognition, multimodal cognition theory (MTC)" engineering appears to be the bridge between the implicit and the explicit. what's fascinating is that, code is only possible because of the interplay between the implicit and the explicit; which is essentially abstraction. the engineering happens when we build Bridges between these levels of resolution... and I believe this issue is most tangibly understood when we study the history of other subjects, and how they overcame the problem we see driving technological collapse today... "when expression exceeds our capabilities to build structures, we end up building structures without systems, prototypes and drafts that became embedded."

given this hypothesis, I believe there should be a separation of languages, perhaps rigorously defined domain separated languages, because I believe today, as powerful as general system languages May be, they are insufficient for engineering at the virtual level scale. two of the languages I propose, maybe ontological interfaces, rather than new syntax types. a language for prototyping, and a language for production. I I believe a litmus test, to verify whether a tool is legitimately useful, or it is an ephemeral technology, it's to study other subjects, and how they implement tools, at the invariant level. and perhaps even studying the history of development of fields and tools, to understand how we human beings solve problems. if those relationships map cohesively in cyberspace, then I believe we are no longer creating new framework languages, 

what's fascinating, is that constraint, is a fundamental property of systems, and it is independent of substrate. for example, both software and hardware can exhibit constraint, and they can also exhibit lack of constraint. logic gates are as simple as logic can possibly be; true or false, on or off. that's an invariant principle. nothing like that exists in software... butt logic gates are not free of the expression problem we are discussing in software, because although logic gates have an elegant ontological process, resembling something like a hierarchy of function, once processors and integrated circuits can be constructed, the possibilities for technology are indefinite. this is essentially where software lives, the expression problem! so how does logic solve this? more constraint! this time, instead of hardware / physics implying constraint, engineers design constraints, in the form of processor models, blueprints, instruction sets, rules, etc. these are not arbitrary the constructed either, they follow the same constraint Principle as base logic; build from first principles, based on constraints, guided by necessity, not possibility. 

software exhibits the possibility problem; there are "x" ways to do "y"; a string can be sliced in a multitude of ways. not only is ontological function non-finite and non linear; individual units are multi-factorial too! an "object" cab have "x" possible arrangements. 

this is classic combinatorial complexity... when the whole is great then is above its parts... (synergy.) but why isn't programming synergetic? what differentiates, multiple parts working together cohesively, from multiple options overloading decision-making? I think the problem might even exist at a different scale; headspaces. 

earlier, I proposed the idea that programming can be separated into different ontological modes; production, prototyping, debugging, testing and analyzing etc. and there is no one size fits all solution for complex sophisticated problems. arguably that is why computers become so complicated as the first place, to solve multiple sets of problems which cannot be solved elegantly in one working unit. but if we look at language, there is a reason why so many words exist, and yet we don't feel overloaded by possibility... (contra point; very rarely is this experienced as writer's block)