# Principles of Constraint & Overflow
I believe this is one of the most unexplored, foundational principles of our human phenomenology, epistemology, ontology, and the field of studies such as cybernetics, information theory, engineering, and our general human quest for understanding the natural world. in essence, the phenomenon I'm hoping to research with this study, is overflow versus constraint. I believe it is foundational today, because we are facing an increase of overflow, sensory input, information overload, news, opportunities, etc. there is a philosophy I'm working on, that the human being, even at the biological level, we are designed for a baseline of struggle. even our very muscles atrophy without usage. of course this has its own branch of implications which we can explore in a separate discussion, however, I'm emphasizing the importance of constraint versus overflow, as a foundational principle of balance. I believe the sensory origin for our human experience (philosophically interpreted as phenomenology...) is this principal of overflow versus constraint. scarcity versus abundance.     
    
the problem with abundance, is that, as I previously proposed, the human being is designed for a specific level of struggle, of pursuit. when there is an abundance, an overflow, beyond our capacity to manage, this actually paradoxically produces an effect, measurably worse than scarcity. there are several functions even at the biological level of the human being, to assist us in dealing with long periods of scarcity. whether food, water, safety, etc. it seems almost as if the core structure of the human being, is surrounded by thousands of protective layers, interwoven for resilience, protection, strength, endurance, and ultimately, systems to protect the human being from harm. that's essentially a cybernetic as it gets, because these systems rely on messages, in the form of the chemical languages. recursion, feedback, communication, those are the foundations of these systems, regardless of how complex cellular life emerges to be, foundationally, I believe the problem that all systems face, weather mechanical or organic, is the problem of balance.     
    
I think this is stretching deeper into my mechanical/structural philosophy, which is another body of work, but essentially, if we merge philosophy with the physical understanding of the natural world; we get a new compound interface of human reasoning... I believe this is what the Greeks were working on, a balance between philosophy and engineering. between function, and form. between principal, and implementation. these are essentially the base invariants we are studying, but as applied to human phenomenology, I definitely believe that the problem of overflow is perhaps the foundational issue we face today. I also believe that constraint, provides structure... when we have structure, creativity is enabled, and when creativity is enabled... order emerges from necessity.... (at least that is my current understanding of these hypotheses and ideas... and it is such a significant and complex observation, we should research this separately.)  
    
    
... in essence, this discussion began from a single humble observation; coding. as soon as I introduce strict constraints in my programming work, I was able to produce useful work. (e.g. using only functions.) when I attempted to use the full power provided by General systems languages, I felt a massive cognitive overflow... not even from a singular stream, from multiple streams of information. whether it was knowledge of future implications of momentary design choices, or total number of combinatorial possible architectural solutions... regardless of specific issues, they all converge into the same principle property we are discussing in this study semicolon the problem of overflow.     
  
what is fascinating about constraint, is that because it produces structure in the form of boundary, is that those are the necessary conditions for states of flow, focus, and creativity. this applies far more than just creativity, but I believe focusing on this lived example is critical to illustrating the principles.  
    
I want to emphasize the significance of this real life experience, because not only does this apply to programming, but it applies to essentially all aspects of my work, and implications outside of work.     
    
it's also fascinating to see the cybernetic relationships, code is essentially the source substrate interface of technology, and technology is one of the major sources of information overload today. I believe people at risk, are those who spend more than a few hours with technology every day. that counts for a majority of people living in modern civilizations today, so this is a significant issue. the purpose of the study is to expand on these topics by researching history carefully, and how we human beings have solved problems of overflow versus constraint in the past. because a primary principle of this study, is not to observe the problem, but also engineer solutions, and from my practice, it seems that when we implement forced constraints, order emerges. creativity enables. I could describe it in computer science/physics terms as "the search space of unbounded possibility, simultaneously reduces to a relative ratio based on current position, while also maintaining continuity over a long-term axis."    
    
while that explanation may be complicated to simplify, I believe one of the fundamental invariance for not only the functioning of systems, but the well-being of human beings, is this principle I'm observing, between overflow and constraint. scarcity versus abundance. in essence, when explored philosophically, Aristotle proposed the idea of the golden mean, however, I don't believe he ever elaborated on these ideas so as to make them operational. that's probably the most important part of any philosophy, especially in this sensitive area that deals with human phenomenology. and as I've stated many times in this study, and in recent discussions, this is not just philosophy, it has a real world implications. if we apply the scientific method, or the engineers mindset, then the hardest part is essentially complete: identify variables and invariance. from there, we observe and record results from trials and experiments. and recursively refine hypotheses, refine tests, until eventually, stable patterns emerge, and I believe that is how we operationalize solutions.     
    
I want to emphasize operationalizing this information, because today we are facing an epidemic of information overload, and we are pushing technology far faster than we can understand it. even engineers today do not fully comprehend the languages or technologies they utilize, which is honestly another branch of this discussion that I'm deeply fascinated by. we're developing projects to help software engineers understand the systems they are building, especially because eventually, ethics and cyber laws will undoubtedly need to emerge. that's another area of History we should absolutely research: why it seems that every time we introduce a new fundamental shift, a new technology, a new invention, a new tool, a new belief system, we always "overflow" before getting it right. it's unfortunate because in this case, the overflow causes damage. overflow at civilizational scale, isn't just a stack overflow in a computer program... it's much more serious, but before exploring the ethics of this work, I'm fascinated by this General area of the study... I believe we should also research citations to support this work, to make sure I'm not over philosophying a common phenomenon, because I fundamentally believe this is more than just armchair philosophy, it may be one of the fundamental invariants that helps us human beings navigate the complex set of unique issues we face today!  
  
I think in science, or Latin philosophy, this was known as local maxima? regardless of the names, we can research that separately as well.

## Actuation 
previously, we discussed my observation and propositions of a foundational principle in human and systems well-being: the property of overflow, and the principle of constraint.   
  
the study is focused on the operationalizing of this information;b because if science proves anything, it's that observing the world is the easy part, the hard part is making sense of it and solving real problems.   
  
so in essence, the first part of the study was understanding and defining these ideas, this second part of the study, is extending understanding into ability; how does one actually apply constraints in their own life? and what is available to us, to respond to the problem of overflow we face today?   
  
I believe a productive direction for this study will be to research this web of topics, to further extend the study.  
  
from my personal practice, there are three ontological principles I'm developing, which is most likely a separate discussion, however I'm choosing to thread these ideas together, because the patterns converge better than if explained separately.   
  
so I believe how we human beings discover, develop, and forage, is essentially the three primary ontological functions available to us. perhaps there are more, but as of now, these are the observed propositions. I want to emphasize that these are mostly philosophical, and we should apply heavy constraints before proposing them as legitimate models of reasoning. that way we understand if they are truly useful or merely armchair philosophy.  
  
1. we discover things.   
2. we intentionally build things.  
3. we partially discover and build things.   
  
so it's essentially; natural discovery, applied knowledge/understanding, and "the element of surprise" I've experimentation, or side effects, which we would otherwise not achieve with the previous two ontological models. this converges on ideas such as tacit or embodied knowledge, which is an incredibly significant topic, closely connected to this web of study.   
  
however, before diving deeper into that thread, how does this connect to the larger study? in order to craft one's own constraints, we can apply these ontological principles. I don't see any other way of approaching a phenomenological issue of overflow, other than applying scientific / engineering principles, and using mathematics "axioms of reasoning" to essentially:  
- build understanding from the bottom up,   
- reverse engineer and understand the natural world, somewhat top down  
- bridge the gaps between these levels of information. which could essentially be described as, from absolute order, to unpredictable emergence.   
  
what's fascinating is that those are essentially the three ontological principles, we discover the natural world, or we build from first principles knowledge and information, which requires understanding (this is actually a significant topic which we should also explore in a separate discussion), and lastly, there is the element of craft: essentially the interpolation of the absolute structure of information and the large scale effect of interconnected systems; understanding how these systems work, why they work, when they work, where parts exist, etc. that is essentially ontological probing of the natural world.   
  
I believe, this is significant to the central study, while my proposition of ontological functions are incredibly philosophical and metaphysical, I believe when we apply them to real world problem solving, we anchor them to the real world. essentially this ability, is the third ontological function; not pure information, but not pure experimentation either. it's also important that I emphasize why I did not include experimentation as a fourth ontological function, because creative Fields benefit more from experimentation than STEM fields... which could honestly be a separate discussion.  
  
however, earlier I mentioned how these ideas are metaphysical and philosophical, until we apply them to solving real world problems. the fascinating part is that, it seems that in the pursuit of solving problems, we established the search space necessary for constraint. to my knowledge constraints cannot be artificially established, because ontologically and especially epistematologically, we as human beings, do not have access to all information. we cannot sense all of the natural world. we cannot solve all problems. and so it seems that nature's order, is to work on problems of hierarchies, rather than dealing with the interconnected network of possibility... in other words, when we solve problems, function naturally finds form. now that's an idea we should apply friction to an especially research, because I'm almost certain I'm not the first person to propose that idea, but it's implications as applied to this study, are significant. because if function can imply form, then problems are a natural source of constraint.   
  
however, as we may explore in a separate discussion, I believe it was Aristotle or plato, who proposed the problem of utility versus leisure. this is more than just the balance between life and work, that not everything we human beings do, can be functional, meaningful, or even useful. some things are just ephemeral. in fact it appears to be a healthy, required function of nervous system regulation; we see this in the form of play in mammals, we see this in the form of art, and oddly, I see this in the form of work specific to us human beings, such as baking food, or stylizing clothing. apart from the functional utility of these practices, most of this work exists as something other than pure utility. so it's important to understand that we cannot merely reduce optimal human functioning to any single domain, rather, it appears to be an integrated domain... and both the Greeks and the Hindus understood the interconnectedness of all things. Indra's net, or Kosmos... these are not merely ideas, I think it's the information overflow problem, leaking organically... for once, we are aware of how much we really don't know. but before studying the epsomatological aspect of this study, I believe a conclusion from this study, needs adequate friction;   
"the hypothesis is, if constraint is most likely the only reliable model for systems, whether organic or mechanical, to operate properly, where does constraint come from? can we engineer constraint, in a world which constantly overflows our sensory systems?" and the second part of the hypothesis is... "constraint does not appear to be a engineered model. similar to productivity — constraint appears to be a byproduct effect of an inherited system; trajectory. and in this case, trajectory appears to be most reliably consolidated in the pursuit of solving problems of the natural world. weather internal or external, intrinsic or extrinsic." yet we also explored the limits of problem solving; human life is not entirely centered completely unfunction or utility; even nature exhibits A diversity of form, not merely diversity of evolutionary function. and it appears to be that function implies form most reliably, or perhaps ontologically, function suggests form... at least viewed from a prototype lens; how things evolve, how optimal structures emerge, etc.   
  
but beyond this, there's an even larger issue that unfolds with the principle of constraint; if problem solving is the most reliable source that we know of for constraint, how do we determine the correct problems to work on? and as of now, I believe that's where epistemology begins. where we don't understand information completely, we rely on embedded knowledge, embodied knowledge, tacit knowledge. intuition. in this sense, the three ontological principles I proposed earlier, reappear again!  
  
so I believe, that if we don't know precisely how to model the correct problems to solve, we can turn to the three ontological models;   
- natural discovery, top to bottom analysis, "What are problems in the natural world, or intrinsic to myself, that are truly significant?"  
- absolute order, bottom to top evolution, "Where can I begin? where does this issue begin? what is the source? what is the source of the issue? what is the source of actionable steps I can take?"  
- interpolated craft, bridging the gaps between the top and bottom, "given how I don't understand the future, but I understand the problem, am I moving forward in the correct direction?"  
  
that last example question, is one that inspired this entire study to begin with. because there are more issues than we will ever be able to solve as human beings, and there are more ideas and we will ever be able to test, just as I proposed earlier, organic systems in nature seem to focus on a constraint set of problems to solve. I think in order for the system to avoid exhausting itself, there must be sufficient regulation, replenishing, restoration, recycling. in other words, I think we now have a functional map of constraint;   
  
problem solving sets are the primary source of reliable constraint, which directly tackles the problem of overflow and finite systems, but as a result, problems eventually become overflow in and of themselves, and as such, there must be regulatory protective systems, to avoid system depletion.   
  
and so in some sense, this study of constraint, is not merely about "how do I design my own custom language? how do I choose only one color for my workshop? how do I maintain a monogamous relationship?" rather, this study emphasizes the invariant principles, which appear all throughout the problems we face today, as modern phenomena of ancient issues. our ancestors definitely faced overflow problems in their lives, and we can witness in human history, that when people were given too much power, systems always erupt from overflow eventually. it appears that when we are continuously exhausted in pursuit, replenished sufficiently, and never allowed full access to abundance or overflow of signal, our systems emerge order. in some sense, this is how harmonious systems operate. this is how Harmony and music operates; when fundamental tones and frequencies cooperate, not only do we perceive this as beautiful sound, but even at the level of physics, Harmony produces visions of order. when viewed through spectrographs, it's apparent. this happens with cymatics as well, the study of vibrations of sound, in auditory sensitive substances like sand. and I think it's significant to conclude this aspect of the study with an image of the natural world, because the focus of constraint is not merely to reduce choices, it is to equip the human being who evolved for a world thousands of years ago, of which technology fundamentally changes our biology, both positively and negatively, some individuals more sensitive to these effects than others.   
  
the natural world is really where these ideas belong, not in mathematical incubation, or bookshelf philosophies, I consider these studies to be the problem solving cartography lexicon, not being the natural world, and bridging the gaps between the mysteries of human phenomenology, and the systems of the observable natural world. in some sense, the lexicon is a work not entirely of pure information, rather, it is the bridging of these gaps, in this sense, it is the three ontological principles I proposed earlier.   
  
when things repeat like this in nature, they are significant enough to be recognized as patterns. and many neuroscientists will consider the human brain to be something like a prediction machine, a pattern recognition engine. I believe that is far too reductionistic, but for the field of neuroscience, it's mechanically accurate... and so far within These studies, we've essentially been observing how the human brain makes sense of the world. and how the brain without the body cannot function. even at the level of the human, we have a cybernetic relationship between our parts.   
  
there's something fascinating about patterns, and integrating these ideas of constraint with patterns, especially since recently we have been discussing and exploring systems for templates and assets, not only to speed up workflow, but to avoid information overflow of modern technology, to properly operationalize these technologies. (but that's another branch of these discussions.)