this is a scene from a recurring the story within the universe, 

"the admiral is overseeing the agents. all of them are asleep. 'damnit!' he slams his fist on the control panel 'sir, the readings have not changed for years, why are you still watching over them?'... 'I come here and I see you, day after day...' the admiral says to her; 'you don't understand... I would rather you never understood.' she seems confused... 'are you afraid I would see the horrors you have, sir?' the admiral is Frozen in shock, as he slowly formulates response... 'I'm not afraid you may witness...' he slowly turns around at her, and his eyes seem even more psychotic than before 'I'm afraid you might lose the very light in your eyes.' "

basically, there's a captain, someone who persists after a team of researchers abandoned the project. everybody believed it was unethical, but the test subject that remained, were called the special Operation agents. they were a group of highly trained soldiers, who relived genetic memories, (we need to clearly define this is not a simulation.) and witnessing what human beings are capable of experiencing and surviving, and how the human system adapts and creates elemental reactions that are not possible from within a laboratory. and just as oh hope is lost, the admiral finally discovers one tiny dot on a giant map of agents who either fell asleep out of trauma, or have surrendered from the program... 

who was this agent who endured? what exactly did they endure? what did they bring back? those may be the most important questions in this side of the youniverse... "yin".