What are the most horrifying parts of human life is, disease, viruses, infections, parasites. because these are units of existence that specifically exist for the sole purpose to harm and reduce life. And I'm assuming this is the cellular equivalent of The origins of nihilism, or existentialism, or cynicism, in which, those human being becomes reduced to the singular moment. And, all that exists in the time frame, the perception of the human, is suffering. And given those conditions, life is pure pain. One of the most beautiful parts of human nature to me is doctors, and people who dedicate


One of the saddest most tragic personas, is the personification of fear. in which, I have felt this emotion myself, that you realize life is so painful, you're afraid to even exist. And that's why the doctor is a symbol of hope because of pain exists so can healing. that is the first duty of the doctor, not merely to cure disease, but to cure the hidden ache that cannot be seen. 

a doctor must both be sensitive, and competent. 

I want to emphasize just how terrifying this emotion truly is. it feels something like existential horror. and so the role of the doctor, is to simply be a respite of hope. simply by a doctor doing their job with dignity, honor, excellence and ... 

another thing that's seriously talk to me climb out of the desperation, at that time of my life, was studying our own biology. the immune system is almost like the core armor of the human being. it's almost like the immune system has an intelligence of its own. it understands that there are agents of destruction that want to remove the flow of life. simply because that is their purpose. the immune system, is constant war, constant battle. it's amazing that something so miraculous can be existing right now, and that's fundamentally what's keeping us alive from the outside world, which would otherwise be instantly harmful to our sensitive inner parts.