ME/CFS personified, otherwise known as chronic fatigue syndrome. what does fatigue feel like if it were personified as a human being? I've struggled with chronic fatigue ever since I've been healing from trauma and I can only say that... the only reason I'm still alive right now, is because something has been guiding me. and it's not human. it's hard to put a name on it, and I really don't want to bring in religion. but some force of good, has been guiding me, and I think fatigue is probably one of the worst states a human being can experience. it's not on the extremes spectrum, it's more of like a constant zombie state. it's like your mind wishes it could live in a body that would just synchronize. you just are desperate to think clearer and you're just constantly feeling like there's an itch you cannot reach. like you want to describe the feeling but as soon as you try, brain fog ensues. the most important thing about this persona is that she did not give up. because fatigue often feels like giving up. staying in bed and resting, when you know there's a lot of work to do. chores. relationships. life. it feels like life is a train that is charging relentlessly forth, like a torrent.

"it often feels like, if you don't jump on the train perfectly, it'll just leave your behind. everyday feels like a new opportunity to jump on that train. some days just feel like you're navigating a labyrinth. negotiating with your inner youniverse. I used to think there was something wrong with me, until finally I had walked the labyrinth so deeply...? "

I think it's important with this persona 2 emphasize that chronic fatigue is not your fault. and pushing yourself only makes it worse. it seems to be that only a sweet spot... Goldilocks...