at this point it seems, almost pointless to have a personal note-taking system. some Greek philosopher of the ancient world said that writing is pointless, because if you truly understand something, you shouldn't need to write it. writing decays. ironically, we only know about him because of writing! so writing itself, is not a self-sufficient method, nothing is. everything is interconnected and ever flowing. when discussing writing, we look at the meta perspective, what is writing an instrument for? how was it a device for amplifying, or reduction of noise? how does it generate noise? how do we deal with the noise of trying to amplify signal using our writing to begin with! this is actually a common problem, in which we create systems to help us solve external problems, but they end up becoming harder to work with. we should definitely look into this, because it shows up everywhere from software engineering, to making positive changes in one's life. it's almost as if the rate of complexity is logarithmic in proportion to the problem we are trying to solve...

observations:
- taking notes is joyful and sometimes necessary to externalize internal system pressure from my brain and body. 
- but, 95% of the time I do not reread the stuff I write. it's simply too overwhelming. too much contact shifting. perhaps the ideal note-taking system would be something that remotely resembles how human neural networks operate. 
    - but that could possibly never work in digital space because we simply have too much speed and power at our fingertips. ironically, we don't have enough constraint! [citation here! we speak about this constraint issue in cybernetica](constraint%20principle.md)
- this makes organizing the system pretty much impossible. it is way too cognitively taxing to reread the things I have already explored. it might also explain why trying to write one focus to draft, becomes immediate writers block