# Assumption & Agreement

This is an observation that is multi-layered and multi-dimensional. but I think we should start with the main idea where it all started. so I was thinking about how fundamentally the model of computers relies on playing text files. like everything in a computer is represented as a plain text file. even images, software, music, and more. basically everything in a computer is a plain text file, or is represented as text, at some point. could there exist a better model? of course! but the problem is that although computers are so abstract and basically infinite like human imagination, our human abilities and our time, is incredibly constrained. I think the beginning of this realization is definitely burden. like it feels like a burden at first. but then I think the only reason the human being has an experience, is because we are so constrained in just enough ability, that we can use our imagination, our consciousness, to give shape and form to things. and I think this is really what makes life real. what I mean by that isn't this simulation theory, I hate that, what I mean by real is that, a story only feels real when it is constrained. one of the most scariest mental conditions is psychosis, and it's essentially loss of contact with what is real. and so what is real is constantly sculpted and chipped and shaped. and it's very constrained. and so I think this is why fundamental models for anything, or even as far as decisions themselves that we make as human beings everyday, require like this transactional model; assumption and agreement.

basically we have to  agree, although there could be a better model or a better decision to make, we are choosing to stick with this. it's not because our possibilities are limited, it's because our time is limited. and that's really the only factor that makes anything happen. otherwise we would be algorithms exploring infinite possibilities. we would never get anywhere. that's actually the trap of analysis paralysis. and so once we established an assumption, we establish agreement. we agree that our assumption will lead to a sustainable system or a better life. regardless of whether this is computer science or social structures in everyday life, this transactional model seems to apply to everything decision based in the human beings life.