The atlas (temporary name) in Lost Angelis, is a Central terminal world government infrastructure. it is dedicated to essentially providing a dome map of structure Atlas to connect to all other parts of the world. this essentially changes lost Angeles into a world/continent, perhaps all of Earth's underground water. rather than solely a city. as it has been referred to in past contexts. the atlas is a massive infrastructure, and it's inspired by several social government buildings in real life, but specially the Victorian Greek Roman eras of architecture. emphasizing colossal giant structures larger than life. so that human beings can Orient themselves invisible systems and structures. that's essentially the purpose of the atlas. because a lot of Los Angeles was founded on theoretical science work until they needed a physical place. that was the construction of the atlas. the vision was to connect basically on atlas, a map of the entire world of Los angeles. and so begun the construction. 

the architecture was magnificent and beautiful. there are statues everywhere. of angels and his historical figures. amongst these ornaments, are the words of the founder of the city. the sign reads, "all paths lead to atlas."

it is both literal and philosophical. because the city was designed to be a safe haven for the cataclysm of human kind. what remained after the old Earth nuclear extinguishing.

it's also a great homage to one of our biggest inspiration sources which is bioshock. the world of bioshock, rapture, is an underwater utopia, a megalopolis. it has themes of both futurism and retro vintage jazz aesthetics. I don't think daytime even exists in bioshock's rapture, so it's very inspired by Arkham City of Batman as well. another great world. these worlds represent structures that are larger than life, larger than the imagination capacity to hold them. that's the purpose of the structure and of a world.