so we were watching this really awesome television series, called high potential. and then the first episode, we get introduced to this woman who is basically a genius, but she's a single mom, taking care of three kids. and she thinks of her own high iq, as a burden, and randomly she gets introduced to the world of detective work. and the head of secretary, is a woman who realizes her potential. she's amazed by her intelligence. 

fast forwarding, I cried at a scene where this young adult girl was extremely depressed and hopeless because her father was assassinated, and her mother was missing. and she was just basically dead inside. and it was thanks to the blonde woman, the main character, that they were able to trace clues in the crime scene, and find her mother, restrained and tied up in a unknown location. and the craziest part is that it was only because of her high IQ that she was able to read between the lines, and look at the clues rather than the deceiving people who we're trying to cover up the crimes. and it was just such a beautiful scene and I cried because I realized in that moment, you might realize your intelligence or your capabilities are a burden, until you finally discovered the environment where you belong and then you realize, oh my God this is what I was created for. it's probably the most meaningful experience I highly intelligent person can have. because you often feel like you're just barely functioning with broken parts. but after trial and error and trial and error, you finally discover the place you belong in, it makes all of the things you've experienced, worth it. and that's essentially what meaning is. that's really where the human being belongs. especially a highly volatile person.

I cried when the head of secretary, told Morgan, that the missing woman was safe because of her. that was just beautiful and I realized if it wasn't for her, she probably would have died.