so we were thinking about, how would you recreate minecraft? like from scratch. like using no frameworks or even a game engine. well I think first of all it's important to understand that creating a game engine is pretty much what Minecraft Java edition started out as. and so I think the conceptuals schematic version of metaling, helps us to problem solve and create architecture decisions. it helps us to think of problems in terms of structural architectural designs and that means that we can approach them as an architect, rather than a blob of problems and syntax highlighting. there's something incredibly powerful about human cognition, that when we role play or metaphorized problems, they become digestible. That's The power of metaphors of analogies. because now content are no longer just abstract thoughts but we can shape them and mold them and we have a familiar substitute... substrate. 


so I think we were definitely start with the most foundational element, the block. we would create a class for a block.

and I think right away, the thought process is really important to understand. because when we are programming, it's one of the most unique human activities and form of expression. because programming is a pseudo language, it exists solely to communicate with a machine. and programming is one of the strangest languages because you can build your own sub languages, which is essentially what the programmer is doing. for example, when choosing to create a block class, we are essentially defining a verb. 

I believe it is useful to think of a computer program as a domain / ecosystem / environment. a script, is fundamentally a procedure. a list of instructions. a computer program, is a life cycle, and usually, a computer program consists of multiple life cycles not just a single procedure recipe. however, programming is such an awkward field, because, there are multiple domains and multiple paradigms. and it's almost like life itself, it's so complex but it's still important to try and categorize things so that we can at least work within the chaos. and one of the primary examples of this is syntax highlighting. perhaps we take it for granted, but back in the day, computer programmers had to work with incredibly limited systems. it's an example that, sometimes constraints are not beneficial. 

another intriguing idea in programming is that evolution is not purely linear, it's more of like a historical mycelium network. computers are great examples of linear evolution, because you have to train yourself to think in terms of the smallest fundamental irreducible parts, while not getting lost in tiny details. and building things linearly from The bottom up. but nature works a lot like mycelium networks. there is no specific direction for which Evolution moves forward. and in this case we're not purely specifying Charles Darwin evolution theory, in this case, we are defining evolution by the original term which comes from the Greek word ??

and so while computer architecture itself is a great way to train yourself to think in terms of irreducible parts that build up into larger structures, it's much more useful to approach this from a more natural lens. for example get out of the program, and look at your subject. in our case, we already have a finished product, minecraft. it's a great exercise to learn how things are built. but we also have a direct reference that we can also track our progress from. these kinds of reverse engineering projects are probably the best way that the human being can learn fundamental skills in any field in logical fields. 

I think this is the conceptual schematics branch of metalling, which is probably the most useful version of meddling because it's not essentially a language but rather it's teaching us how to think in terms of problem solving programming abilities.