why are stories so complicated? I think this is deeper, it's connected to my human homogenesis life study, in which I'm basically trying to understand, if it's possible to understand the human being, as an organic living system, rather than an enigma? so basically, when we look at human life, what actually makes your life? what you call your life, is fundamentally very complex. there are multiple working parts that feed back and creates systems. it would be impossible to break down every element of your life, that's why we use models to simplify local resolution, so we can at least keep our observations true, while minimally cognitively taxing. because the life of just a single human being is enormously rich. especially when we Factor principles of time. when we consider the history, the memories of a person, that fundamentally the current life of the human being. and this is incredibly important because it seems to be the central web node, connected to everything else. pretty much, what this means is that, my studies of what matters most in life, my studies of organizing non-linear complex systems, even surviving chaos, and ultimately the philosophical problem of suffering in human life, what seems to be the central node connecting this giant web storm, is the human life. 

it might be paradoxical because these studies are trying to separately study environments that seem to be separate in nature. but nothing is truly isolated in nature. everything is interconnected in some significant way. and the way a system fundamentally works is through feedback loops. and so it makes sense that the human being, has feedback loops. things that feedback into themselves or to other systems. 

why is the significant to understand the base mechanics of systems? because you could in theory simplify the complex life of a human being, as the fundamental mechanics of systems. that's essentially what complexity is, living complexity. I'm not talking about complexity and cellular automata or chaos theory, I'm talking about real life everyday complexity. that's really what I want to study. I want to study can we use our technical languages and tools to reduce suffering for the human life? 

now, that's deeply existential and ethical and moral, and, the main focus of this research, is to create a unified cohesive model, to understand why our stories so difficult? it seems that the more you learn about life, the more complicated stories become. this actually makes sense. because stories are arguably driven by characters. citation needed. and if the life of a single human being, of a single character, can be so complex, that it resembles its own microcosm, with its own story and memory, then it fundamentally explains why analysis in storytelling, create a bell curve of complexity. basically the more you learn about life, the more you realize how complex and chaotic everything really is. and you start to notice it in details where you used to never look. I think this is actually a necessary curve. because eventually you realize that , arguably, the most cherished stories, are the ones that are complex and alive. the story itself doesn't have to be near life resolution, even little folklores can have a lasting impact on the human being, and culture, which is the collective self. 

but what's even more significant about analytical engines in storytelling, is, there is literally no ceiling for how complex a story can be. in fact the more details a story has, more alive it feels. in theory. because, a story is not just complex details, a story is fundamentally, a little image of life itself. this is where theoretical authoring comes in. basically this is where I consider storytelling to be the source code for human imagination. human imagination is the source, it's what allows us to compile and decode written literature, all those stories can present themselves in multiple forms like video games, cinema, music, or even a still image. so now that we define the different forms of stories, we understand that there is a fundamental pattern, that defines a subject as a story. and a story is highly interpretive. this is actually what makes music so engaging. and that's the key mechanism, and engagement. it's the delicate balance between order and chaos. at the edge of proximal development. something like the golden ratio. but rather than getting stuck on perfect details and equations... fundamentally, a story moves you. it makes you feel something. in theory, a story can even make you feel things that you can't experience in real life. (this is where we have to close the section because it's indefinitely complex)

but, sourcing from my own personal analysis observations, what makes actually writing stories difficult? what are your favorite stories? do you know how they work? does the medium change the interpretation of the work? that's essentially The guiding questions the source of gravity for the authoring framework. 

in summary, a story is complex because, characters are complex. each character has their own little story, their own little microcosm living inside them. this is what we may call the inner universe. however, no system can survive in isolation, and so even the complexity within a single character, has to be tethered with an external story. basically, this is where we see the concept of constraint, and friction. as soon as we put two characters in the same room, something fascinating happens. they interact. two little microcosms don't become one giant galaxy, you actually get a cohesive movement. that's a dialogue. that's body language. that's the action scene. stories are fundamentally driven by characters. 

# core elements of literature 
literature versus storytelling, are just academic terms and interchangeable in this context. 

a story, at the most basic, is comprised of characters, world, history, 

but proto literature elements, which is linguistic, is actually how we share ideas and information as human beings. proto literature elements, which serves as the basis foundation for all human communication and language, includes time as a fundamental axis, cycles as components models of time, the idea of compressing a three-dimensional web of interconnected information, as one axes (citation needed, this model is incredibly significant because it reveals how we human beings understand chaos.) and more models included soon.

secondary aspect of the story, include branching from the core elements, so for the character element, we have relationships with other characters, the timeline of a character (E.g birth date, childhood, teenage hood, adulthood, death, if applicable. these are constraint points along the axes of time, and time is the fundamental model of storytelling.)

the world, secondary elements would include, the history of the world (which is embedded in character history, because characters arguably shape the world, and the world arguably shapes the characters, so it's a feedback loop. in other words, it's a system!) geographical significance of the world, is where real life elements are required because this is where the chaos of possibility , exponentially overwhelms the psyche. there's just too many possibilities for creating abstract worlds. this is where we see reference materials like assembling a notebook/system, entirely to organize the inspiration sources for the material, which will be referenced and sourced in the literature! this is something that , as far as I've researched, every author of cherished stories has done in some way. 

perhaps that is the fundamental idea and stories, reference material, in other words, inspiration. the word inspiration comes from greek, in spiritus which means, to breathe life into. it's a beautiful image for understanding what inspiration is.




# asset cognitive model

we can imagine a little building block map where the character is an asset actor like in unreal engine! if we treat our stories this way, we start to think like architects and we can solve problems by modeling and structuring. and that's essentially record problem and stories. they are chaotic and formless because it's an interconnected web of non-linear information. and we human beings cannot survive without orientation.


defining the elements of a story. after we define the elements of the story, we can look at the next stage of architecture, which is defining patterns and reusable blueprints. this is not something commonly found in offering courses, but it is most definitely a pattern in all stories. 




a story is like music. it travels forward, but it also contains cycles. that's what constraints complexity.