what if we dedicated a section in our studies, to actually emphasize the importance of balancing everything in the human life, Theory including. because the problem with theory is that it can become self referential, meaning it becomes a closed feedback loop and that's when Theory starts to become a fractal rather than helping you outside of the theory, in your life to solve real world problems. that's really the only purpose of theory. think of it, music theory, color theory, even mathematical theorems, they are fundamentally useless and meaningless if they don't apply to something larger than themselves. so I guess that's really the only way to find out if your theory is worth exploring or if you're just hiding from action. it's also important to worth noting, that's why I think it's important we should develop a sub-module or unit or little micro class just for this, because the study of theory itself is a Meta Meta lens. Theory itself is pretty meta, we're basically discovering what are the first principles and the correct optimal way to do things. so when we study how we develop Theory at all, we're basically studying how we learn things. because theory is Human experience embedded into compressed knowledge. that's immensely valuable. I think that's the only reason we've become so advanced technologically. but existentialism aside, the therapeutic effects of theory, I think has to do with control. because you want to understand things. and I actually explored this in chaos agency, but it's impossible to understand everything. it's impossible to control everything. the perfect system does not exist. the only stable effort is balance, evolution, and adaptation (BEA)

it's important to remember that first principles thinking is only useful in relation to how it simplifies action. the only purpose of thinking, is to better inform our action. otherwise, our thoughts die. it's also impossible to understand everything, and to classify every attribute possible of a problem or a system, this is why technical analysis has a very strict limit... because paradoxically, if we try to classify as much as possible, we introduced noise, and the whole purpose of classifying problems, it's to split it down to reduce noise! and so the primary principle here is equilibrium. 

the purpose of theory crafting is, I guess to explore the limits of theoretical analysis, in order to learn to think properly. basically, this field/class is meant to help us think better so we can act better. nothing in isolation. everything is a web interconnected system!