# Youniverse theorem/hypothesis/theory 
this is essentially the scientific analysis of our anime stories. from the Rebellion to the kid and the ape. we're essentially studying this idea this hypothesis, what if the reason life is so complicated for the human being, is because within the human being is a mirror of the universe itself? meaning, one of the most important things we can do in our lives is understanding ourselves, but the paradox is that you cannot understand yourself by looking inside your own universe, we can only experience things through contrast. just like a painting without shadow, you can't see anything because there's no form, even if they're is technically a light. that's another hypothesis within the universe, and we're trying to at least miss the logically explain why there exists both, beauty that is so magnificent it is euphoric, and cruelty that is so devastating, it feels like death. I think we mythologize these aspects of life, as figures. so if you think about it, back to our light analogy, when you look at the universe it's pretty much black. but actually there are stars everywhere. it's just that we can't perceive the light with our eyes. it's just like looking in a room without light. it's not that shadow has consumed the light, it's that literally you can only see Shadow when there is no light. the only reason we can even sense things is because there are contrasts between them. this is deeper into cognitive sensory science but in essence, it also works eeriely well as mythology. because if you think about it, when there's something so beautiful like light, you don't see anything wrong in it. it's just pure light. and when you experience something so horrific, it's like looking at a shadow, it never ends, it's like a black void that stretches forever. 

and so we want to have equal focus on both aspects of life because, the illusion of the Shadow is that it feels more powerful than lights. but that's only true when you've lived through a lot of suffering. that means you've seen a lot more Shadow than you have light. but, this is where our mythology gets incredibly sensitive, life is not only merely suffering or joy. in fact the very basis of our life philosophy is that life is pain, and everything is trying to reduce that pain. sometimes, the pain is too strong. but thank God we're not all on fire!
