"it is impossible to understand the whole structure, that is why we explore branches paths and points. together, we collectively create the structure which we cannot individually."

given this, we can't assume that everything in the human being's life candy conceptualized as a structure system. by definition, a system is a structure, and a structure is a system. it's a feedback loop but they are not the same thing. that's the Paradox of a whole, it's not one thing, but many parts working together.

mycelia ephemera, is a term used to describe work, especially that of a non-linear, neurodivergent, polymath person, in which we remember that all things in human life are interconnected. just because we aren't seeing immediate results in our efforts, or following our curiosity, it doesn't mean that we are wasting our life. I've seen in my own life, something strange and unexplainable happens when you choose to listen to your intuition, rather than a fabricated idea of a good human life. our ancestors knew this. and I'm not going to slip into existential horror, I don't fundamentally believe that these times are any harder than our ancestral times. but I do believe that we are chronically under equipped, in the domains we most need. knowledge, philosophy, theory, spirituality, faith. learning to use our human abilities, especially creativity, which when harnessed properly, is almost limitless and unstoppable. all of the problems we face in nature today could be solved, in fact the solution already exists somewhere within the unassembled parts. that is one of the biggest sources of Hope in my life. hopefully others understand that too, that through mycelia ephemera, listening to your intuition, we will be guided to what is most important in human life. and that perhaps is the most important part of life, understanding what is most important! 

just because you understand what is important it does not mean we can act autonomously, that is where our other work threads the missing pieces. helping the human being