There is no pain worse than the unlived life. The life that could have been. Is it more than just mere experiences & emotions? As I have studied from life itself, the human life is only worth living when we have these 3 things: Experiences, Emotions & Relationships

There is this aching hole in my chest... but it's not becuase i've been sick, or hurt... but becuase I've spent what seems like, the most delicate moments of my life, infront of a computer screen, either coding, watching things, but never experiencing. Just imagine, that all along you were staring at static pixels that gave you a mimicry of what life could be like, outside these walls. It's crazy to me to think about how much time we spent, in our short, fragile lives, traversing the worlds of the virtual, rather than experiencing life outside. I can't imagine, how I would have survived all this time, without my technology. Perhaps, it is the tools themselves that have been using me all along, and making me sick. But perhaps, there is a deeper dimension to being human, somethign that is suffocating, begging to be understood, released, experienced. I revel in the unkown, becuase that is where I have found the most fulfilling answers to this existential void within me. So in short, do I think technology is bad? It's definitely contributing to mental/physical illness. I mean if it weren't for these distractions, I would be underground, or ashes by now. But I also see the good: that the artificial excels at speed & automation. This means that we have, in some way, irreversably evolved our consciuosness, to the point where we think more like machines than human beings that once roamed the earth in search for fire, dancing, food, friends, family, enemies, danger. I guess this part will always be embedded within us. 
****
I consider myself somewhat of a cyborg, cyber-girl, in deep search for meaning & reason for this thing inside me that has always questioned: *"Why?"*