# Old Earth
During the beginning of the construction of the city, all that remained were the undergrounds tunnels, deep beneath the earth.

This scientist is inspired by Carl Jung, and the other, inspired by Nietzche.

Two scientists, a few farmers, and a single woman & her chilc, were all that remained after the old earth was destroyed. One scientist .The other scientist was elderly, with a wise, yet peaceful expression. 

The two scientists were exhausted & crushed by the overwhelm of keeping the only remainders of humanity, safe. "How on earth are we going to protect what's left of us?" Said one scientist to another. "How on earth you say?" The other scientist said. He chuckled to himself: "


The scientists had two opposite approaches to the development of quality of life. "I've conducted thousands of research experiments in my life. I've blood on my hands that I'll never wash away. The horrible things i've done... i've treated the lives of animals like they were rocks..." The scientist had extreme guilt weighing on their consicous. "It is almost as if, the development of humanity, will always lead to suffering. Even if it is so, that few will suffer, so many can be spared... regadless of scale of suffering, nature gave us consciousness... and to consciously harm another living being... i should be punished for the things i've done." 

The scientist later commited suicide by drowning himself in the seas. The only scientist that was left, was a lighter, softer version of himself. "There are ways to develop a civilization, without the need for brutality." The scientist said to another. The other scientist, hopelessly looked to him: "Yeah?" He yelled at the top of his lungs: "WHAT IS THE WAY." The scientist calmly responded: "We will silence the beast. We will honor the virtue. We will develop humanity not for, but with our concsiousness."

"I remember a time where a colleague of mine... she used to tell me how humanity was a plague... that we were cursed by some... thing. We would always be a parasite... and even if we tried to do good, it was in our very dna to be beasts. A hungry, beast parasite that would swallow the earth whole someday. And she was right... look what we did. Everything's gone." The scientist consoled the other, and smiled: "Not everything my friend..."

"As a true man of science... and of honor... as a child, I loved life. I was fascinated with the way the world worked, and I wanted to understand it... not becuase I was good... or noble, but becuase I was a child, in love with life. In awe of all the colors, and senses. My curiosity exploded when i discovered the anatomy of human beings. Thousands of impossible systems that worked inside, to keep us alive. I cried... I cried to the skies... that there must be a force... perhaps not a creator... but life itself... that we were designed for a reason. Perhaps only we, could solve the problems of nature. And it was then that I saw the ugliness of human beings. We can be so terribly cruel. When we are at our worst... there is no amount of good that can bring back the tortured souls. But something, somewhere inside me... told me to keep going. To keep searching. To have a smile on my face and live a good life. To devote every living second & every breath, as a gift, to make humanity suffer less. To ease the suffering of all things... that was the nature of my work."

The other scientist apathetically responded: "Why would you smile, if you knew it was painful?" The scientist slowly looked at the other, and in a ghostly wisper, responded: "My smile was the only thing keeping me together." The scientist asked: "Well-what happened to that colleague of yours?" Teasingly, he said: "Did you get to do... heheh" Abrutply, the other scientist looked lifelessly at the ground, his eyes lost their color, and he quietly said: "She ended up killing herself." 

The scientist gave hope to another, and together, they made an improvised research room where they vowed never to harm living beings. But as one scientist saw how peaceul & noble the other scientist was, every day that passed, the hole in his belly grew deeper & deeper. Filled with guilt, and nightmares of the things he did to those animals & people. All in the name of science. In the name of development. Technology. In the search for great... he forgot to do good.