various ideas, 

one, add a mirror to bathtub. 

too, the reason we enjoy video games, is perhaps because we are understanding role-based components and units. and this is actually how patterns emerge, and this is how we learn multiplication, language, and perhaps some of the most important foundational abilities in human life. it's similar to the reason we enjoy collectathon /puzzles, because we understand there is an unfinished canvas, and pieces are cohesively fit together. what's even more interesting is when we introduced the idea of compositional role based units, in which we can form grammar. the second video game, we learn the base level of systems, such as a level 1 Canon or a level 1 troop. and eventually as the game progresses in complexity, so does our ability to understand and form grammar compositional units, which itself is a key core mechanic of progression in video game systems. 

life OS is attempting to provide an out of the box functional workspace experience, although it can be edited at source, as an empty setup. I essentially, the out of the box version of Life OS is focused on productivity focus and statistics. we do this through several integrated workspace tools, such as a cyclic pomodoro, in which work is chunked into sessions based on the schedule of the user. and then digital activity is tracked and because the system is integrated, these units can integrate with each other and be used to query and filter and gain deeper insight into our actual digital activity so we can make improvements and maintain consistency. 

life OS is gamifying the experience, by providing pools out of the box, built into the workspace, such as binaural beats, scheduleable elements, and especially the core mechanic of completing tasks. a task is a central unit of focus, divided into sessions. very inspired by video games, where the graphical interface itself the interaction systems, the sounds, the feedback, everything that has already been studied in video games for decades, is essentially being brought into the productivity workspace.