Main idea: the reason chaos agency matters to me is because when things get difficult, it's essentially because they become chaotic and too difficult to deal with. and the only reason we have anything in life, is because someone or something, persisted and did not give up. that's essentially what a system is. and everything has a system (author's note: not everything is a system, that's an important distinction.)

the reason chaos agency matters to me, is because nobody explains to us as children, that life will be difficult. and life will have moments where you question if you even want to continue living because the experience is so awful and so much suffering, that it's debilitating. and it's important to recognize that life will contain moments of deep suffering, and I believe it's crucial to understand how we can, at the very least survive. even before we think of sources of sustenance like finding meaning and pain, or philosophy, I think it's more important just at the base biological level, that we understand call to survive life's most difficult moments. and with chaos agency, we are exploring specifically how we human beings navigate chaos and complexity. because suffering could be described as a physiological state of complete chaos. and it feels absolutely awful. 

I also believe that on a less existential scale, the only reason we human beings have abilities, is because we do not give up. when things get difficult, our default state is to preserve energy and not continue. and if only we are taught as children, that if you do what you love, you will have moments where your capacity to deal with life's challenges, makes you question if you should continue at all. those are the moments you must continue. that's essentially in its most primitive state, a feedback loop. and everything absolutely everything in nature, everything in this universe is some form of feedback loop. a system is a feedback loop. in our equation of chaos, we explore how systems themselves are feedback loops, and chaos is not the enemy, untethered chaos is the enemy. chaos, in relation with a living system, actually keeps the system alive. for example it's what makes music enjoyable. it's what makes a relationship feel real. we could say, it's what makes The Human experience worth the suffering it entails. that's probably the most philosophical lens I have to share. because when we are faced with the moments of suffering, that's essentially chaos at the most deep resolution that the human being can experience. that's why it feels like everything falls apart, because that's some fundamental level everything literally falls apart, and everything becomes abstract and chaotic. that's why chaos, as the untethered force, is the most volatile element in the entire universe. and when we human beings experience untethered chaos ...(??)

[+ well...]