Let's discuss a webstorm of topics that are near to me, since i experience these almost every single day.

webstorm:
- cognitive overload
- brain fog
- chronic fatigue (neurologically-induced; tired mentally, but physically able, or physically exhausted and mentally able. this is probably deeper and a chronic health concern, so we should stay focused on these topics, and not self-diagnosis.)
- cognitive ergonomics
- analysis-paralysis

this is the root topic "how is the same enviornment, neutral to different modes of human operation?"

fundamental tools i'm observing that actually work:

- enviornmental tools and ethically applied technology. machines and tools are synonymous with their function; they fundamentally extend our human capabilities. but they also become assistive; helping us solve problems we cannot on our own. the more i research and learn to use technology in ethical ways, the more i realize: this could geniunely help, at the most tangible level. (carefully balanced.)
- "the fundamental human resources": time, energy, attention, effort, memory, space, ability.
	- time (fundamentally unchangeable, unless we consider our perception/distortion of time to be an influence-albe unit. we explore this more during our "flow theory".)
	
	- ability (fundamental unit of what we are physically capable of)
	
	- energy (physical, cogntiive, emotional energy.)
	
	- attention (our ability to sustain a path of motion, for a given amount of time and energy)
	
	- effort (our ability to output
	
	- expectation, prediction, preparation (this is more fundamentally related to my concept of "headspaces" but they are essentially currency units of energy themselves.)
	
	- cognitive real-time memory bandwidth (the rate at which we can process information. this is the most sensitive, and powerful part i've observed.)

- "patterns, languages and theory." i am discovering, that for every subject, field, or even abstract, generalized work; there is a proper method to use our limited human resources. this is why we learn theory first (e.g., math symbols before using math) rather than forcing the learning process, the expression process, and the output product, to share one space. they are fundamentally different.

- headspaces fundamentally transform the active working memory type. almost like swapping from heap to queue memory, but organically. e.g., learning the piano vs. playing a piece, learning to sing vs. singing a cover song, learning to program vs. programming a system.

- sometimes, even with the perfect plan, the human body

let me emphasize this hypothesis/question.

i observe in my natural life, when i am deeply focused in topics. that branches into these binary outcomes:

- extremely focused, unable to detach. usually followed by the webstorm of negative/damaging states mentioned above.

what is most fascinating is the crossfade between information and flow; how is that distinctly different? from what i experience:

- flow is like fluid mechanics, as describing a state of human cognitive ability, in which one "flows" fluidly between parts of a system, work, job, task, application, etc. essentially, it is a creative output ability, that is internally processed, of which the input for processing, is the creative output feedback.

- i hypothesize... this is why feedback on it's own is not a stable attractor for positive flow; feedback loops can become exhaustive, closed and isolated. that's probably what cognitive overload, brain-fog

- this is also physical; the enviornment, not only externally, but workspace as an enviornment, and especially the often invisible, internal enviornment (headspace, mental tasks, etc.). so enviornment becomes sort of this natural weather cycle in the creative, focus, problem-solving abilities in human beings.

i think i just a nswered my own question while brainstorming lol, but let's back this up with research becuase it's really important for me to understand this.