it's actually really sad of that we human beings will always fundamentally be constrained by our biology. and what I mean by that, is earlier today this saturday, we were thinking about how much better our day could have been if we would have woken up early instead of sleeping because I was just exhausted..

. I think ethically, what this means is, it's really sad that a human being might actually want to seriously live and improve their lives, but what if your health gets in the way of that? like what if you're just too exhausted? 

no I don't want to look at this through Rose tinted glasses but I think the only answer -- when human health is so chronic and debilitating -- is to walk the smallest of steps that you can. 

this almost feels humiliating because you have so much ambition that's in you and so much life within you, but your body simply cannot sustain your will, so to speak. and it's like the answer might seem to push harder but actually, we have to understand that fundamentally the consciousness is like the infinite universe, and the body is like an organic container. made of Earth and stardust. literally. and consciousness wants to embody. it doesn't want to just think all the time, it wants to make contact with something real and feel the forces of life. and so it's like these two elements are actually cycles. the consciousness seems to depend on the biology, and the biology is only given purpose through the consciousness. it's like an engine. 

but the idea that if we walk tiny steps, they will compound and increment over time. and because life is so complicated and incalculable, we don't really understand how the small choices we make today, will fundamentally change the future. I think this is where time travel becomes immensely useful as a thought experiment. you can imagine it if you make one small choice today, it fundamentally changes the ozone layer or something crazy. maybe it's not beneficial to think like that. because it could become quite obsessive. I think this is why we require controlled thought experiments. 

but even in computer programming, incremental tiniest of changes, built into incredibly complicated structures that are not even recognizable from their small parts. it's almost as if you would say, if I choose to wake up today, I'm planting a little atom, and someday I'll have an entire universe. and now that sounds a little crazy, until you realize that's literally how life itself is structured. tiny little parts, as small as they can possibly be. and they form a components of all of life. even if this conversation itself. tiny letters form words and then paragraphs and then thought and structure emerges. so it's real. it's not just theory.!