# Metalang: The power of shapes

Authored: [ynvrshzl@gmail.com]()

## Shapes
A block is a cube. A ball is sphere. A pyramid is a problem. Primitive mathematical shapes. 

## Abstract 
abstract idea, shape encodes function. 

think of Lego bricks for example. but before we go to the real world physical example, why does it matter that shape and couch function?

I think, because both literally and metaphorically, programming is literally just functions. in fact lambda calculus proves this. you can construct anything from transformation. you can even create numbers, which is proto mathematical, by using transformation and function. 

## Lambda Calculus 

the theory is that function is irreducible. there's nothing *realistically useful* below function, it's like the atom. there are smaller components of the atom, but the atom is the thing of interest. philosophically, you can read about our zoom mantle brought fractal theory, if you want to understand why over analysis is harmful to systems. 

so now that we established the fundamental, function and transformation are the foundations of programming and mathematics, then we can go back to our real world observed case, the Lego bricks. if shape and codes function, without the necessity to document, perhaps that solves one of the biggest problems in programming, which is the war between verbosity and abstraction. 

it's the timeless debate of assembly versus python. which is better? if you have more time, assembly gives you the most control. if your boss is yelling at you , you're probably going to want python, or even further, python abstraction libraries! the point here, is that when we abstract code, we have a trade-off. and essentially we lose control of understanding what we are building. which is actually necessary, and so the question is, how can we maintain enough level of understanding while also abstracting things? I think shape is the answer, or one of the answers. because with lego, you don't need to understand everything in order to build things creatively outside of the instruction manual. I think that's what we're trying to build, I think that's what we're trying to replicate in programming it is no coincidence that one of the core principles of sustainable software architecture, is abstraction and components that are reusable. I think intuitively, people who have done this for long enough understand at least an intuitive human body level, that it is humanely impossible to keep a system simple forever, because the demands of the real world, or any sophisticated system, requires deep abstraction in order to be humanly operable. one of the strangest ideas is that programming is a lot like virtual construction, except you are the architect that creates little virtual architects that help you build things. and that's what you could consider actor blueprint agents in code!


everything in metaling can be compressed down to the idea of a block. however, we are not limiting the shape of a block, the concept of a block does not encapsulate shape, it encapsulates the irreducible function, what is a block? in physical space, a Lego block or brick, is a shape that can connect to other shapes. that's what makes Lego so fascinating and creative, because the language embed function. we only need instruction manuals when we want to replicate a structure, but actually building with lego? it's only possible because the blocks themselves explain their function, without needing a manual in the first place. so in metal lane, we take this concept and apply it into reprogrammer space.

if a block itself is the base function / mechanism, then attributes describing function, could help the programmer in the same way that Lego bricks describe their function embedded in their design. it's difficult to implement this without creating a new syntax, so for now we implement it in the title itself, which is really the only visual aspect of programming, and it's literally what programming physically is as the human being interacts with it. however programming is much more of a cognitive activity, then it is about writing scripts and memorizing apis. I think the biggest problem with modern programming is that, standards change all the time, and so there are no real fundamental standards. an API implemented today could be discarded tomorrow and break entire systems, however, with an abstracted block-based world, you can continue to use the same blocks, and change their inner structures accordingly. this is literally how sustainable systems are implemented internally architecturally. so why should the programming language itself be any different? 

a common example, is trying to implement a feature in one browser, and it behaving entirely different in another browser. and you might beat yourself up and stress out, it's not your fault that you don't understand every detail, nobody memorizes documentation for things that change constantly. that's one of the craziest parts of this field, we constantly learn and we constantly solve problems and even learning itself is a problem within itself that we're constantly solving. and there is probably no perfect solution to any problem, I think looking at the core pillars and beliefs of this project, sourcing from the second law of thermodynamics, no system is 100% resource efficient. the best sustainable systems only last by discovering better solutions, not the best solutions. I think that makes all the difference. because I think the programmer naturally has an assembly shaped mind, but we are working with systems that demand powerful abstraction. I think this has to do even more fundamentally with the fact that we human beings are so limited on time and energy. and so if we design a system that respects this nature and maybe even harnesses it as a source of fuel, well then perhaps we can create antifragile programming languages, and meta link is simply one research family of many. because again, there is no perfect solution, there are only better decisions to make every day.