"you used to tell me that this... doesn't last forever."

this script dialogue is inspired by the funeral ending hi potential, season 2, episode 11. there's this beautiful Serene quality to the funeral. it's a lovely sunny day, you can see the sky light shining through the greenery. 

his mother is there with him, and he's consoling her. and everyone is there, from the police squad to his own personal life. and that's a very significant scene.

recaptured what this feeling is like, in a word, which I can't remember right now. but basically, it's like stepping out of the mist and remembering what makes life meaningful, and it's almost like a cold splash of water. you wake up. you remember that life is limited. the problem here is that the definition of the word, is not merely focusing on the limits of human life, because you can easily become demoralized and cynical if you focus simply on how short this life is. but something important he said is that, it's meaningful because it's brief. that's what the word is capturing. that's exactly the aura of this scene that I felt. even though it was composed as a stage for a TV show, it's a lifelike representation of things that really happened. that's the power of human cinema and theater.

there is also an incredible moment from this same episode, in which Morgan guillory, is panicking, as a room locks them in, and fills them with toxic gas. she starts panicking when she analyzes and realizes they could die in there before anyone how's the chance to save them. and so she tries to do everything on her own, meanwhile karadek is completely calm and composed. standing still in the room simply observing her. and she doesn't want him to touch her. but she starts losing herself deep in the panic, and that's when he steps in and hugs her. and he suits her, and that part made me cry. both for personal reasons, because I wish I had someone like that to soothe me in my life when I panic, and two, it showcases one of the most ethical parts of our own universe storytelling, which is showcasing how to help someone who is suffering. and this is literally how we human beings learn, through observation. so this is what makes Cinema incredibly therapeutic. (we continue exploring this thread, in its own sophisticated channel!)

the very same episode, contains another source of inspiration, which is, a man with a lot of money, ends up dying. he uploads his pseudo-consciousness to an artificial intelligence operating system which knows everything he uploaded. all of the emails and articles he's read. basically all the information, is like a summation of him. that's inspiring and terrifying in its own right. 

but then there's also this creepy part, there are Android human replicas, automata that resemble the uncanny valley of a human being. and it's just like this plastic thing that's moving its hands in erratic unnatural ways, and I've always been unsettled by The uncanny valley. it's a great way to capture horror because it's a humanoid like figure, but it doesn't feel right. it doesn't feel real even if it looks real. there's something deeply unsettling about that. 

there's an idea, there are human Android replicas in a factory being constructed from biological genetic experiments, I know I know the cliche Gene editing. however, it makes sense in our Lost Angelis stories! I could imagine yami and doom having lots of soldier Android automata replicas. 

this is a great episode honestly. I don't know where to put these personal notes, but perhaps they could be like author behind the scenes, special inspiration materials! like a special edition of the original stories, and it's basically like the concept art of our literature , showcasing the historical Evolution and process behind creating complex stories that feel real, so that you could learn to build your own stories, within reason of scale! 

