# Intellectualizing
If you notice that life has become a static play, where everyone has their assigned roles & people seem to effortlessly follow a script. It seems like most of life's "greatest experiences," such as falling in love, starting a family, going on vacation, finding your dream career, etc... all seem like colorless canvas. None of it makes you feel anything. If you look at the world this way, chances are you're like me, someone who spends an absurd amount of time in their headspace, analyzing, thinking, reviewing & observing. This isn't good nor bad, and infact, if you learn to use the double-edged blade that is the human mind, it is perhaps the most powerful tool in this universe. However, there is no guide, for deelpy intellectual persons like me. This is mostly why civilization is shaped the way it is, everyone has their roles & there's little friction between who you are, and what you do. 

But when it comes to a highly specific individual, it's hard to box yourself into anything. This, makes life seem like it's suppposed to be a race to the "successful" life, and then what? Are you forgoetting we will die? And all the people you know will die too. That's, one of the most horryfing tragedies of life. It is, in death, that we gain a unique perspective of what life really means. Essentially, we are free to carve our own meaning, but that doesn't mean you have to stack the weight of the world on your shoulders, rather, start with what already exists. What you are good at, what you love, what the world needs, and what you can be rewarded for. 

That's the Japanese concept for Ikigai, a meaningful existence. [Read more here](etc/youniverse-free-nf/articles/autobiography/ikigai.md)