what are good names for an awesome mocha skinned girl with dreads, who feels like she's a robot trying to be human? 

the girl who used to be known as x e n s, zaria, the girl with cat ears. she's basically feels like a robot. she takes snapshots of people with her eyes. she studies the environment. she wishes she could feel like a normal human being, but instead she has a mind that feels like a Tesla coil. observing and absorbing so much information it's overwhelming her. she's constantly overflowing and she feels like a robot who grieves , wishing she could be human. except she is human. I often feel a lot like her, so it's definitely possible for a human to feel like a robot wishing they were human, just as much as a robot wishing they were human. 

basically, and zaya is a life story, we explore what it feels like to have overwhelming intellect, and feel like it's being wasted, but in a more tragic sense, wishing you could experience life as a normal human being, whatever that means. it's actually when ziya gets out of her own head, similar to Dr vera, that she realizes her in select is not a burden, it is exactly what the human being was created for! she just needed to learn to experience life outside the walls of her mind, to live. I'm learning the same thing. and through her story you see what feels like an overflowing Tesla coil, start to emerge something Beautiful when she connects with the world outside her. 

of course for people like us it's often difficult to find connection and we feel safer observing life, through a microscope, rather than interacting with the messiness of human connection. so it's not realistic to say, she just found friends in her life was fixed. rather, her work reached the people that needed it most. that's the fundamental faith. booty booty baby girl
