isol is isolation personified. or perhaps she is isolation mythology as a mythical figure. 

This is a fascinating study on isolation because once we see isolation as a mythical figure, that's when we were able to study essentially why it's so destructive for a human being... to be isolated. In fact today as difficult as it is, I'm outside. And as a programmer engineer, I really have this natural tendency to understand and discover the irreducible truths of systems, which can honestly get really scary and granular. because you're essentially like a deep sea diver and the further you descend into analysis theory land, no more pressure you put on your system because you're essentially diving into unmapped territory. isolated. And how does this relate at all to isolation personified? well basically the deep sea diver is isolated, just like when you explore a thought or you literally physically isolate yourself. And as a programmer I often try and discover what are the reducible forms to describe something. but I also try and discover what the most optimal solution to something is, and the problem is that, there is no optimal solution. And so today, I'm literally outside even though it fucking hurts and it's stressful and it's painful to be outside. What did I do it? for love. Even if I don't feel the love, I tell myself that I love myself and I love my child self and I deserve a life. And essentially even though I don't feel it, that's what I have inside. so I really tied back to my life to philosophy which is essentially, which is trying to understand the principles of a mother. A mother who loves her child so much. I feel like it's such a powerful deep framework that at least for me.