# The tragedy of human emotion
"what if I could have all the energy in the world? what if I could run as far as my mind. what if I never had to rest? what if this life lasted forever?  what if I had the answers? what if I had all the answers in my life? what if I could erase all suffering? what if my body was as powerful as my mind? what if I could wake up someday and feel alive? what if I never had to dig endlessly, just to remember I was made to live? what if I never questioned or doubted myself? what if I had all the health in the world? what if I had all the things I need money could buy? what if I never had to suffer as a child?"

so the beginning of this exploration of the tragedy of human emotion, is poetic and story like, because that's really the only language native to me. we're trying to express how tragic and difficult to accept, that on your worst days, you're not fully in control. even if you want to do everything perfectly, what if your body is too tired? what have you been pushing yourself too hard? how do you know your own limits? what do you do when you're only human support is yourself? what do you do when all you have is faith that a God loves you and created you for a reason and everything is as perfect as it was designed to be? so then, am I the co-author of my story? am I the reader? we're not asking nihilistic existential questions, those are very dangerous. what I want to know is what are you supposed to do when your humanity you can't go on anymore, but you know some deeper part of you remembers? I think this is why the basis of my life beliefs is that, life is suffering. or perhaps life is pain. I'm not sure which one. that's the basis. and we are such fragile delicate creatures, we really are, but paradoxically we can endure unimaginable damage. the only reason is because we heal. perhaps that's what defines unsustainable effort...

if we could write a story of being human, and aliens crash landed on Earth someday, I think even in my own work, there's a yin yang duality. I love scientific analysis, but I also love anime. I love telling stories I love character designs I love powerful badass epic fights. I love the feeling of things clicking into place. I love when things make sense I love when things flow I love when things resolve. the beautiful thing is that the yin yang represents a cycle, and a cycle is made of resolution but also conflict. chaos and order. I think if I could explain human beings to aliens if they crashed on  Earth tomorrow, I would show them the symbol of yin yang. That's probably my favorite symbol, right after the cross of Christ.

I think my own personal beliefs are always going to be sculpted and formed, but even if I don't have the perfect answers to everything, I think it's important to at least to share the current state. it could seriously help someone like past me, and she's the candidate I think of when defining practicality of our work. 

life is pain. that's the basis. but right next to that, is human perspective perception and attitude. the messiest most important parts of human life as far as I understand it. the reason it's right after the core belief, is because if life is pain, that's probably the only thing that can reveal who you really are. because how you choose to respond to that abstract idea, really defines you as a human being, at least that's my theory. 

most of my theory is actually based on yin yang, because in order to  understand or even experience something, you need an opposite to contrast it. so in order to understand the value of life you unfortunately have to come to terms with the nature of death. in order to love fully, you have to be willing to be completely vulnerable even if it means you're going to literally lose your life. in order to follow your dreams in life, you have to be willing to sacrifice. that's the first aspect of yin yang, contrast and opposites and paradox. however, an idea that is even more fundamental is equilibrium. because if we just had harsh binary opposites, life would be far more cruel and unfair. instead of harsh black or white contrasts, I think most things in life exist somewhere on a gradient. and I'm not trying to define my own life Theory here, I'm just trying to understand and hopefully explain why for some of us human beings, this life is so painful and it seems that it's not as painful for other people. that actually leads us to another idea and possibly, this one we need to approach with caution because, it could trigger someone like past me, into an existential nihilistic pit of despair and doom. so before we even talk about the problem of perception and experience, we mentioned to do, so let's speak a little bit about one of the most significant characters, persona, in my, our wyo universe. 

Joey Doom is the character expression of human suffering. while I don't understand his story completely right now, I do know the most important part that he represents the most horrific pain the human being can experience. you might ask, why would you make a character so depressing? I think at one point the only reason I was alive, was to see his story and how it would help other people like me. I think the reason why it was so powerful... enough to stop me from taking my own life, was because... Joey Doom is actually a mythical figure, expressed in modern anime terms. in the Hebrew beliefs, there is a father of human sin and evil. and he was once an angel but rebelled against the designer of the universe. and he tried to create his own rules. and he was cast away from the heavens. and...?

# Perspective Perception 
