being tired and having chronic fatigue does not remove your ability to live and to do things. If you're tired do it tired. There is not a perfect moment and you'll probably not wake up fixed tomorrow. And so, this is something I'm learning on my own how to basically live with a condition knot is exhausting.

basically I went outside even though I'm completely exhausted and I don't really know what to do about it... I think even if the health doesn't catch up, the beliefs at least can... second change my attitude. And the human body could actually adopt under stress and so even if you don't have the required health to do something that you want...

It's difficult to describe this because I'm in public and it's difficult!! basically when your health is so difficult It makes it difficult to change things...


struggling with health issues of any kind whether they are emotional or physical, when most makes it feel like you are missing out on life. like you're missing out on your own life. And that's incredibly demoralizing. I think that's how I can describe it. there's a sense of futility, as a default emotion for me. because it's like, if I'm not my biology, how come when I really want to wake up early, I literally physically cannot? How come when I want to feel confident, I cannot? those are questions you ask yourself in real time in the current moment but it's a lot like asking a beginner pianist, how come you can't play masterpieces and it's because you don't even have the capacity and your language or experience. so if we take that as a model framework, anything in life can be learned. however, spending time with something and repeating something does not mean you will automatically get better at that. There has to be a specific approach to practice. And so, during the moments where you ask why can't I just wake up early? let's actually do like any fundamental ability in life. That's not just something you're born with or some magical quality, that's an ability that you develop and strengthen just like a pianist develops the muscle memory to play masterful piano pieces, learning to be confident is a social and internal complex skill. You could therefore fundamentally approach all aspects of your life as something that you can learn and improve upon. fluency in language essentially. 

There is this anger the sense of utility that you really want to express yourself in an ability but you don't have the capacity to express yourself because, you don't even know the language. And for me personally I feel this rage that I can't just play the piano or I can't just be confident. And... perhaps if there was such a thing as a school of life or a university on how to be human, the ability to learn anything would be one of the fundamental abilities. because you can literally learn anything. And that means there are problems or issues in your life I think a accurate hypothesis is that you currently lock the abilities to solve problems or better health.