Chaos and order a Representatives yin and yang. contrast. duality. opposites. it is one of the most fundamental and important ideas in the entire universe because it has the potential to explain in theory anything about life. and so it is a crucial philosophical tool as much as it is a spiritual concept. 

however, chaosin order are not inherently the same as yin and yang, because it is not about the focus of balance between opposites, but rather the emergence and existence of Chaos in order in the universe. and the strangest thing is that the natural inclination of all things in the universe, is towards decay and death. as understood in the concept of entropy in astrophysics.

and so this is where the ethical part of this game is born, because we begin to understand that everything in life requires sustenance of some kind. this is probably the best place to introduce the concept of love, devotion, gravity. this could even be a great way of metabolizing and synthesizing our vast varied wisdom and knowledge about life, so that it doesn't stay purely theoretical or locked away in research papers, but rather it's interpreted through the lens of a game, and one of our favorite formats, mixing elements! 

because it's not just a game about elements like doodle god, we're actively exploring so many parts of life, and we're personifying and objectifying things. and that's really the driving force of our universe, it's like the language that powers our engine. metaphors. for some reason when we explain things through metaphors I think we're understanding life at its native language because everything is interconnected. and when we can meaningfully link separate sources together, that's almost like creating a narrative a story, and that itself is one of the most beautiful ideas because stories are almost like little universes themselves. and every single human being eventually has to confront this reality, that within them exists on existence almost like a fingerprint of the universe outside. and it's unique to them. with traumas and fears and memories and quotes and images and it's all I vast endoconnected universe. and we're not glorifying or romanticizing chaotic minds here, we're trying to synthesize end understand what matters most in human life, and the paradox is that you can only understand what matters most in life when you've seen what cruelty and Injustice is because inherently, acts of evil devalue life into something below human. 

and so morality is also another element, directly tied to chaos in order. morality and ethics, love and devotion, these are... as far as we've observed, we most fundamental parts of human life, because they are the only sources of gravity we have in the vast universe inside us that we will never fully comprehend. 

this is why the tiniest of things that we can understand, we must protect with our very life, because they are a mirror of life, they are the only thing that sustains our life. without these elements, human life suffers tremendously, most likely beyond the point of consciousness being worth the risk and suffering. that's also a very dangerous and important philosophical and spiritual exploration, the nature of our human consciousness and the risk of suffering, and if it's worth having this consciousness if there could be you potential for so much cruelty and injustice. 

I think fundamentally we discovered our own answer, and perhaps our universe itself is not an explanation of our answer but rather sharing the story of how we got here to begin with hopefully that inspires whoever experiences the stories, to help them to find their own source of meaning in life, based on ethics and love and devotion as centers of gravity. 

but chaos in order also describes a terrifying idea, the fact that no amount of philosophy or human logic can replace the role of God. and perhaps you could interpret God as consciousness or autonomy, free will, the ability to choose. which itself is commonly philosophized as an illusion. and that's what I mean, other certain point human logic reaches a terminal velocity, and the only thing that is left is God. autonomy. the ability to choose. the ability to choose what is right and what is wrong. 

we're not sure how to synthesize or even interpret that as an element...