# Leon & Jack talk about life.

Leon & Jack talk about life. Jack visits his memories, as he lies down, dying. He remembers his childhood, and moments of wonder, and joy... joy in being alive.

Leon: "I watched the final protons in the youniverse, collapse underneath my fingers. Do you want to know what happened next?" Jack's eyes grow with frieghtened anxiety. Leon: "They became one." Jack seems dissapointed: "What? That's it? What else? What else happened!?" Leon looks into Jack's eyes: "The one became two, and four, and sixteen. and before you know it, creatures emerged out of the simplicity of the newborn cosmos. Eventually... creatures like you and I, emerged again. In a cycle that never ends." Jack asked frieghtenedly: "What.. what about... outside? What's outside the simulation? I need to know... tell me..." Leon hesitates: "Outside? I... I can't describe with these words... to you... the closest thing would be... infinity. Bubbles of realities stretching forever & ever, in all axis of time... bound by their own laws. Each a different version of the next... yet all the same."

Leon looks out into the endless void of creation, he calmly says: "We are in a story. Everything you see here was created at some point in time. Infact, the author of these worlds gave me the awareness of my being. I am one of the few characters in her play, that knows about the outside world." Jack is shocked: "Wait, how do you know the author is a woman? Is she beautiful?" Leon laughs: "only I will ever know." 

"She told me that... of the greatest tragedies in life, missing the opportunity of things that could have been... that is the deepest tragedy of them all."

Jack frantically asks Leon: "Why was the Youniverse created? Why did she make us this way?" Leon looks out into the vast space. He begins to paint with his fingertips, the skies, like an infinite canvas. Leon says: "You know, that part I never understood myself. She left behind little clues, but there is no answer... I guess... it is by design she chose to keep it this way." Jack looks at the canvas... Leon seems to be painting their childhood stories. Jack says: "You're telling me, all of the things we've been through, and all of the things we've survived... WERE ALL FOR NOTHING!?" Leon smiles: "That part, she left for you to decide, Jack." Jack angrily balls his fist, and swallows the canvas that Leon was painting. 

Leon throws pebbles into the cosmos, like they're galaxies, rippling on forever. Leon smiles & looks off into the distance. "She's worried, you know. She doesn't know if she'll make it." Jack looks at Leon, he says: "Why would The Author be worried?"

Leon leaves Jack with last words: "You know what's the craziest thing of them all Jack?" Jack looks at Leon, confused. "This place, we call the Youniverse, it's actually a living thing. We're inside someone's body." Jack's eyes expand like supernova entities, Leon smiles & fades away.

Child Jack asks miserably: "Why was I born? Into such a cruel, unforgiving world? With people that are more like monsters, than the monsters in the stories I was told? WHY?! Why couldn't I have been an infinite consciousness, or a tree? Why?" Leon smiles & looks at Jack: "The infinite is unbounded... and that is the greatest misery of the author. You cannot experiencer, if you are everything, and yet, when you are as limited as a human being, there is the perfect place for experience. That, is the breath of life."

Jack angrily balls his fist: "You know what i've gone through?! I never wanted to experience any of it." Leon looks at Jack: "I know Jack. Whoever created this space, probably knows how we feel too." Jack: "Oh that's your answer?! You know I almost killed myself when I thought about this life being nothing but a script. I'm just a character in someones story, born to suffer & then just fucking die!!" Jack stomps furiously on the ground.

Jack finally asks the question: "Leon. If you knew that I would have been in so much pain, without any way out..." He pauses to swallows a lump of sadness in his throat: "...Wouldn't it have been better to have never been born... at all?" Leon looks at Jack's eyes for the first time. Abruptly, Leon hugs Jack. Jack is agast & terrified, nobody has ever hugged him in his life. Without words, Leon hugs Jack.

Leon asks: "You want to know something Jack?" Jack looks at him... Leon calmly says: "The tragedy of this life isn't pain, it's that we'll never know all the great things we missed out on." He touches jack's heart & makes him feel what he feels. He cries.