# Yami vs Eric
As Eric turns around, he let's Yami see the scars on his face... "We were never the same... we live in different worlds." Yami, is terrified: "Who did that to you, Eric?" Eric responds: "Who did that to me? Life. This cruel world did that to me." Yami falls down on his knees.


Eric asked Yami: *"Would you still exist, even if you knew that your life would be nothing but pain?"* Eric showed Yami his scars. Yami closed his eyes, and showed his back. Full of whippings from his father, during childhood. Eric realized Yami had suffered more than him. He could not believe his eyes, but it was real, Yami's back was full of scars. It seemed so inhumane, like a crime against life itself. Eric shouted: *"WHY ARE YOU STILL HERE. IF YOU'VE BEEN THROUGH HELL LIKE ME. WHAT THE FUCK IS KEEPING YOU FROM PULLING THE TRIGGER AND ENDING IT ALL."* Yami turns around and smiles. "Becuase we can survive Eric..." Eric is furious. Yami walks up to Eric: "But more than that, we can heal, and change." Eric cries a single tear.

He looked at me: "Life is not all bad, you know?" I stared back at him, without emotion, he knew his words slipped right through me. I carelessly wisper: "You have no idea what I've seen. You know nothing."

"Where I was raised, there were no laws. I was thrown into a world... I never asked to be a part of." He softly wispers... desperately, his mouth trembling: "But... what about the beautiful things?" I stare deeply into his eyes: "Those things can't save you when you're dying."

Eric said to him: "You never understood me... we live in different worlds." That's when Yami calmly says to him: "In another world, we could have been best friends."

Eric said to Yami: "I hate that we have to fight like this, but I'm sorry. This is what I have to do..." Yami looks at him... as Eric feels fatigued: "It would have been better, if none of us had been born."
Yami says to Eric: "I know how you feel... I kn-" Eric interrupts: "You don't. You have NO IDEA HOW I FEEL." Yami's heart skips a beat, as tears pour down his face: "Eric..." Yami knees collapse to the ground: "Eric..." Yami looks at Eric in his eyes. Eric is shocked by Yami's blind eye. "Eric. I too wish I had never been born. But if none of us are here to fix this mess... it'll stay that way... forever." Yami wipes the blood from his nose: "I'm exhausted too Eric. Somedays I just wish it would all end." As he closes his eyes, a fountain of tears flow down his face: "I too wish I had never been born."
Eric waits for Yami... Overpowering him by sheer strength, Yami begins to fall weak. Eric draws sympathy for him: "I feel bad for you. You're on the wrong side of this." Eric says as he grabs Yami's shoulder: "You should have spent time with us. Your friends... they never cared about you. You were always the one protecting them. But look where you are now. Alone. Alone just like me. Just like we've always been." Yami slowly opens his eyes & looks at Eric. He is beyond exhausted, he is ready to die. With the strength he has left, Yami wispers to Eric, as his eyes slowly close: "I am my own friend... I always had... myself..." Collapsing on the ground, Yami faints infront of Eric.