I'm just going to say it because I feel it, but there's some part of me that wants to ask God directly, why did you make life this way? Why are human being so limited so stopping so ignorant Why do we suffer so much and why is life fundamentally unfair? It's on a fair not only because good people suffer, but because there are so many tiny miracles that we take for granted, there's so much good... and it's hard for me to comprehend that fundamentally most of life is actually the mundane... the minutiae. The stuff We don't notice but the stuff that stabilizes life. like even the immune system is such a crazy part of the human body and it's just one of many systems that fights the external world of contamination and illness. And so it seems to me that a system becomes sustainable when it can handle damage and errors and pain and this is very similar to what makes a computer program sustainable. The more useful you want to computer program to be the more sophisticated system needs to be because otherwise it becomes unmanageable and unsustainable and not adaptive to the various edge cases that could go wrong in the external world. And so if the computer program is the internal world then, the immune system would be like the error handling environment.

I think we primarily explore this with most of our work but specifically with Leon from the universe. He's not even a single human being He's more of like this quality of consciousness that can inhabit a body but he essentially created a world without pain and suffering Essentially like a virtual having. And during This time, in the stories there was a panic about artificial intelligence creating virtual health and torturing people and it was an idea that was so haunting that some human beings collectively came together to form some super consciousness and essentially they created a world that was completely impenetrable from the outside A world About just not need air handling because it was pure perfection. almost got like although I do want to be careful with how we interpret their story because nothing we do is emulating God. 

but essentially his story describes if there is so much negative possibility in life Why don't we assume that there was a positive as well. essentially that's what we created in the virtual heaven.

