A letter from my future self, to Ares & my past self.

"Dear ares, from your fellow author, story-teller & human being. I'm writing this as a letter to my past self, and I want to start off with the most absurd thing ever: I did it. those three words resonate so much with me like all the songs that have saved my life. I always thought that I would end my life because I can't take the insanity of this absurd existence, and so those words I did it, used to carry a completely different meaning than it did now. but instead of being swallowed by the abyss, I chose to stubbornly persist even when I lost all emotion and all dreams I had no vision for the future or my life I didn't even feel loved for myself or my child, I was two steps away from throwing myself away forever. but something somewhere inside me, a furious chariots of pure rage and anger and sadness swelled within me, I doused my spirit and gasoline and lit myself on fire. instead of running away from the fire I danced with it in madness no longer running away from everything I felt no longer pushing it away I allowed myself to feel it and then I realized I didn't have to be afraid to do these violent things because deep in my nature you and I both know we were put into existence by a force far larger and far more mysterious than we could ever comprehend. that Force itself as infinite and balances the universe can be found in everything even in a tiniest point of existence that is exactly what I had inside me. even when I lost all meaning and I lost all sight, anyone else would have given up by now, but something somewhere inside me is animating this body, something is dancing and revelry. perhaps it is all those years of thousands of hours of music that has kept me alive, or those traumatic memories of seeing humanity at its worst. we live in an existence of duality, that is what I want to share with my life. there is both good and evil inside each one of us, without one you cannot experience the other. I just like a story, if you stop Midway things do not make sense because the ends have to be tied together this is because the story is like a fabric made up of many little threads interwoven with each other in specific ways. pain in the moment might seem completely pointless, but in the chronology of your story, the pain not only serves a purpose, but it allows you to experience what you were created for. 

the pain I felt in the moment made no sense to me in that moment, but like I'm telling you aries, something somewhere inside me animated me it was the smallest of things I have ever felt in my life I had to silence the entire world just to notice it was there. and then I realized what it was, it was the birth of the youniverse. 

the issues I was facing in my life as my past self, they were tormenting me every single day I felt completely stuck and directionless. but I kept pushing forward, even when I had nothing left inside me I still showed up everyday. you have no idea how much I love my past self for doing that without her I would not exist. I would not have met all this beautiful people I would not have changed all those people's lives, I wouldn't have experienced all the things I wanted to especially transitioning we're both trans girls we understand how confusing this life is especially how disgusting our fellow chimpanzees can be to us. but like you know, there are a few souls that are like us and they would never hurt us. and I've met them these people are beyond worth all the suffering we've been through. we human beings are not meant to be isolated but I'm glad that I had time alone so that the entire world would just shut the fuck up and let me do what I need to do. 

I was able to transition and solve all of the problems financially and physically I did everything I wanted to and I surprised myself beyond My imagination I look so good right now and I feel so comfortable and happy in my body I'm a completely different person on the outside and peopl