so today is March 13, 2026. and while preparing our breakfast today, something so annoying painful and aggravating happened. so I had almost like this super faint intuitive voice. but today I've been incredibly irritable. like time is just passing by so fast and I feel so slow today and I know that none of this is my fault. it just hurts. speaking of hurt, the intuitive voice that I felt was like don't boil that milk because the same thing that happened last time could happen again. I think this is why I don't go outside anymore. I'm just fucking exhausted of that same anxiety always being right. "see? i told you. the we world is a dangerous place. stay inside your room you're safe here."

but today I'm like what's even the point of showing up every day for myself? if it's going to be painful anyways? and I think that's really the start of real wisdom because yes it's going to be painful to show up for myself it's not going to be easy and it will probably never be easy this is as easy as it will ever be. but perhaps I'd rather feel this pain then the pain of never having tried. or the pain of having given up. and I feel like that's the echo of meaning in the abyss. it's like, yes this fucking sucks but it will suck so much more if you're just abandoned ship. 

and so I burned myself, not as painful as last time, last time I had like a severe first degree burn, and I was just crying and I felt horrible that morning because I felt just has irritable and tired and disoriented and dissociated as I did this morning. plus it's a rainy gray day so there's no happy sunlight to return to when they come back to my room. it's like being alive hurts today, and that's okay. it's okay that I burned myself, I just think that the anxiety within Me, maybe as I can overbearing mother who doesn't want their child to experience any pain. and of course, when your child gets hurt and you see a wound on them, you feel the pain of your child and your own pain. it's almost like seeing a reflection of yourself when they get hurt. I think this is white tissue damages so horrific. because it's like I accidentally harmed part of me and now it hurts and hopefully it will repair. it's just in the moment I panicked. I just grabbed the boiling mug, and now my finger feels like it's swelling it hurts it's really painful. it's like a numb and it feels just the same way as it did. and I'm like oh my fucking goodness please don't tell me that the same thing just happened. and then the same thing happened as last time, and I'm like... Lord why is life so painful? the burn itself felt extreme, but now that aftermath is so much more painful because you have to live with it. maybe that's why death is so tragic especially self-death, because the aftermath is something you don't have to live with but someone else does. and from what Jordan Peterson has shared from his life's work, people never recover from that. some people even blame their themselves or even take their own life out of guilt. yes. life is fucking painful. it fucking sucks to be human sometimes. to be conscious that you can be hurt. but you can be hurt beyond repair. that you for some reason must continue... 

this isn't really existential meaning this time, it's just fucking annoying that this happened. like I was already exhausted and time was flying by and I have the right to complain and feel irritable. and this hurts..  