# Programming and the Interface
so we expressed this idea that programming is only useful because of fundamentally it allows us to... ?

build things out of the infinite canvas that is the computer. essentially programming is like a procedure, you give instructions step by step and rules and logic and mathematics and science, and eventually it forms system architecture, and that's where engineering comes in, it naturally emerges from the organic growth of programming scripting and coding. however, fundamentally the interface is actually everywhere in programming. an interface conceptually is a abstracted graphical layer, that communicates directly with underlying program. the purpose of the graphical user interface is to make computers more accessible to Human beings. this is why software like blender and krita exists. it would be programmatically possible to paint an image represented entirely with numbers and programming constructs, however programming is a language... it is not humanly accessible for activities that require ergonomic information, as in the case of blender sculpting or illustrating in krita. 

and so this is a fascinating concept because it means that an interface, more specifically an editor, is an instrument where the program has become very constrained only to what is necessary. but also it provides input from the human being, and the computer interprets input and processes it programmatically. throughout the entire model, the programming language defined by the human being, is always the fundamental language, but in order to ergonomically work, it has to follow real life human physical construct. 

because again you could have theoretically represent an image using numbers and that's essentially what computers do. but the human being cannot think in a language that is so abstract, because it is inherently a visual activity. and if this applies to visual activities such as sculpting or illustrating, then perhaps we could solve more human ergonomic issues with the concept of the computational interface. 

the interesting thing is that software feels more like a package or a product, rather than solely and interface. and that's really where a lot of the abstraction becomes business and economic and social. because now it's no longer a computer program, now it has human social structures like logo products documentation licenses memberships and more. 

and this can fundamentally stray away from the purpose of the computer program, because the product is two layers of abstraction, the interface and the product. 

l believe this is important to understand because...? 

as soon as we learned that the graphical user interface is essentially just like a layer of buttons and control knobs, that accesses the same parts of code, as a terminal would, that's when we realized that code is actually much more about properties and attributes and commands... a button on the operating system that changes settings, is the same system as if typing in a terminal. that's fundamentally crucial to understand because when designing graphical interfaces we often get stuck for hours tinkering endlessly, and perhaps the principles of ui/ux are more beneficial in this area because it is primarily visual and cognitive. 

# The Paradox Of User Interfaces
so then, when designing User interfaces, it's important to work from the grassroots upwards. meaning designing attributes and properties and a setting system. all before jumping into the graphic will use your interface which is paradoxically, the last thing the engineer builds, but it's the first thing the human user sees.