# Components of Stress, and Extreme Neurodivergent Stress
Exploring stress in the human system.

Stress is something all human beings experience, but not equally. We experience stress as structural collapse, which is similar to context of civil engineering. Stress as structural weight, that leads to eventual collapse. So then we can think of stress as being structural, even if we feel is psychologically and cognitively. 

The key questions in identifying stress, analytically; **What is stress? Why am I stressed? What structures are collapsing in my life?**

However, in our personal context, neurodivergent stress is absolutely exhausting and sometimes, unliveable. That is why we are dissecting and studying this, as a hope to finally once and for all, resolve this petryfing state, and live well.

In the context of something we have regularly experienced and have suffered with, experiencing cognitive stress as a neurodivergent human being is not the typical idea of exhaustion. I could almost describe it as like being violently ripped out of sleep, in a deep state of dreaming. it's almost like staying stuck in a rem phase of sleep, while someone from the outside splashes cold water on you. it's a violent. stress as a neurodivergent person is not justified at All by the word, it is much more like creative extinguishing, than it is simply stress from work. because for the neurodivergent person, and really for all human life, equilibrium is the most important component.

this is why rhythms and routines are cycles and seasons, it's not a to-do list or a schedule, that's just the office technology of an archaic biological human need for stability and cyclic pattern. 

without going too much in depth to the biology, here are the primary components of stress, as we commonly experience it in our work from time to time. we are getting much better at managing it, and perhaps the most important concept is prevention. this is why a cycle protects you from getting lost... hardest part of a cycle however, is that it doesn't do it on its own. you have to have some kind of agency... some kind of discipline or willpower. for a newer divergent person that's brutal because it requires enough willpower just to keep giving you a reason to live in this chaotic world. because you don't usually see the beauty of your own nature, especially since we isolate ourselves because other human beings are just way too much for my nervous system to handle. but I do fundamentally believe that we only really get to experience the true beauty of a neurodivergent human being, when we see their work and when we see where they belong and when we see their relationships with the people they need. 

I think this is why institutions exist. like a regular person will not really care about mathematical theorems, but brilliant human beings spend their entire lifetimes dedicated to cracking complex mathematical problems, and that's really how the modern world we live in, is slowly improving. it's because of brilliant people that refuse to give up. 

wow this is not an existential analysis, the world we live in is indeed shifting towards a positive vector. it is getting better, but you can't notice that if you look at global scale change. change has to be local within your own Maxima your own field of view... even more fundamentally, only as far as my hands can stretch, that is what matters. if my hands cannot hold anyone right now, I will not force them. one of the most important ideas in eastern philosophy is flow like water. to a chaotic noisy neurodivergent person, it's like trying to answer violence with square breathing... I think we should explore this seperately. 

the components of stress, one the state of self. when I'm exhausted, that's a primary component for neurodivergent stress. two, external sources such as time seemingly fast forwarding, or another human being bothering me. and three, unexpected setbacks within one's creative work or pursuit. 

these components fundamentally shape this violent stress that I experience as a nerve divergent person. and I'm really sharing this because we actually have incredibly strong guardrails but once you're inside this painful state, it is so unbelievably painful. 

on one hand, you really want to pursue your creative work because that's really what gives you life as a neurodivergent human. but on the other hand it's like... blockades that refuse to let you pass. it's like you want to do something good with your life but so many things are against your existence. and this is actually the most existential condition of all of life. in fact we metabolize this and most of our work like the universe simulator game or even our own universe stories. I think the neurodivergent person experiences life with the last filters, and closer to native resolution. that means beautiful things are so much richer in depth, but painful things are excruciating, almost like it feels like existing is a crime. and this is why most of my work is an effort to soothe the nervous system and provide some kind of medicinal remedy through the form of knowledge and wisdom and stories and information. 

and so because in a divergent person experiences life closer to its native resolution, that means we are more sensitive to the true nature of life, and that's incredibly painful. especially when you realize that the fundamental Chaos and order of life is what keeps everything alive. Eastern  philosophy of the yin and yang. 

the yin and yang symbol is fundamental to all of our work. and especially in this area because experiencing stress as a neurodivergent person it's almost like opening a wound inside your mind and pollution infecting your creative fluid the thing that drives your work the thing that drives your life. I believe for another direction person if you aren't working, remind will become consumed by entropy and will try to destroy itself, and I don't know why but it seems like work is a primary component to people like myself. 

and it's incredibly important to share this knowledge because it's partly what saved my life during severe depression. but it's not just working isolation, because everything is cyclical and interconnected in this universe, and so work has to be balanced in an equilibrium as a cycle. what you may consider a daily schedule or routine is really a natural rhythm that keeps our biology in sync with the most harmonious frequencies of being. not primarily and a mystical way, but literally in a biological lens, the only thing that keeps the human being stable, is a stable structure. and that structure can be internal but ideally it needs to be both external and internal. because they reinforce each other again like cycles and seasons and weather in nature. 

so back to the idea that life is primarily chaos in order, what if we metabolize this in our universe simulator game, in which we see that cells are at war. and it's not evil or violence, it's simply the motions of life. so when you are a neurodivergent person and you experience brutal stress, it almost feels sick it's futile to try to do good things with your life because it hurts so much. 

but we can't stop there, that's a very  cynical and nihilistic perspective but it is a step closer to wisdom. I think the true rhythm is an understanding that life is primarily composed of Chaos in order and cells are at war with each other and in some sense there are definitely things that try and destroy and steal the life from you. we metabolize this through like our mythological universities, but even three biological lens, so many things try to attack the human being. like parasites and... yeah we don't have to introduce nightmare fuel. you get the picture. there's a lot of bad things that try and harm the human being. but our systems are so incredibly intelligent and ancient, I mean the immune system has parts that can detect any kind of cell, and create a bio weapon. that's the most badass thing I have ever heard in biology! that's primarily what our mythology is based on! the idea that there are things that try and destroy the human being, but we have developed systems in spite of pain and damage and I feel like our attitude towards life definitely has to be the same way we need an immune system for the psychology. 

