phenomenology of software engineering, is surprisingly critically under documented. there is a massive cognitive gap, between the lectures and concepts in computer science, and the real world implications of technology. arguably, web development is one of the most important areas of software engineering today, because the web is essentially the collective integrated environment for communication and processing, in some sense, it is a proto virtual cybernetic mutual nervous system... and when we conceptualize technology as physical models, organic processes, symbiotic relationships, it is clear to me that software is no longer merely about algorithms, computation, or any one subject.. just like the web is a mutual interconnected environment, I believe web-based software engineering, is inheriting those properties, multi-domain systems integration, communication interface. it's way more than just a network protocols, the protocol is at the experiential level! I see modern web development as the cybernetic interface, between the physical world , the virtual symbolic world and the cognitive. the philosophy is still not as structured as I would like it to be... but before philosophy, I believe it is important to understand the phenomenology of software engineering, how we as engineers actually code, how we reason about these systems...

so the emphasis with this study, is how we can develop new methods for authoring code, reasoning about these systems, and constructing safer technological systems, both for the engineering aspect, and the access of code 

here is a fascinating observation, we can, in theory, build anything using code. where this becomes fascinating, is when it becomes operational; code can be used to create things.. not merely to instruct a system, or write scripts. I think we forget, code is the instructional foundation for graphical user interfaces, which is the strata above source code, which is essentially powering most of modern technology today. there is also a strata between the source and the user interface, which is the communications layer; this is essentially where social networking exists, this is where messaging exists, file sharing, and essentially where most of the internet is constructed. 

what's fascinating is that, after the physical hardware of a server, most of the technology is actually powered by software, by instruction. by logic. rules. what's fascinating is that software seems to be the only field of engineering that does not enforce strict structural regulations, at the substrate level... but all other fields of engineering require strict guardrails at each stage of process, not only to ensure quality control, but to ensure systems don't collapse underweight. that's essentially structural integrity, at the principle analysis... 
... I think one of the most powerful features of code, is also one of the most detrimental aspects; it's composability. composability mimics restructures closer to Natural language, then strict mathematical symbol. so code is not merely symbolic space; code operates in symbolic space, using symbols, which themselves are multifactorial.. composable.

I think this is why analysis paralysis, and decision fatigue, most likely contributes to poorly written code, poorly documented systems, and poorly designed systems. in engineering terms, everything flows upstream from production, and everything flows downstream from the process...
... what this means is, if the chemical substrate is not sufficient for handling weight, these effects will flow upstream to more complex abstractions, eventually, material degradation, structural collapse, etc. 

but this can happen in Reverse as well, the downstream cascading effects; most commonly seen with poorly implemented structures, at the design level. this could be caused by a multitude of factors, such as inadequate weather conditions, geographical miscalculations, etc. these are effects that flow downstream, at essentially the "end product". 

it's fascinating is how this translates directly to code; it is one of the only fields, as I previously mentioned, that does not enforce strict regulation at the substrate level.