# Emotions as a cell game
I think it would be awesome for the universe simulator game to be like a cell simulation game. but like not trying to simulate the universe theory, but rather, simulating the inner universe of the human being. and I think the fact that we can treat emotions as particles, that gives a structural dimension to the game, and that's really what it was naturally evolving to become anyways. 

Like we imagined the prototype to be like a word cloud game and then, a game with circles and a network of graph, and then I realized wait, this is literally like agar.io, meets JavaScript microbiome simulations. and I was like oh my gosh, this explains why emotions are so complicated, because they are like cells they are like Network graphs! and connections are almost never linear! for example, we were analyzing gender dysphoria, and the fact that gender dysphoria in isolation, is not as destructive as if one of his paired with desperation and despair. that explains gender dysphoria as a negative attractor particle. by itself, dysphoria behaves like anxiety, anxiety is simply a response of worry, for a situation that is too unclear to move forward in. I think that's how we could systematically define anxiety. and gender dysphoria is like a negative particle attractor. 

dys dysphoria seems to, attract negative particles like, despair and desperation. because in observation, dysphoria is really just the self asking, does the outside world see the inside World clearly enough for us to exist safely? dysphoria and a social setting especially when looking at a mirror, especially when looking at a mirror in a social setting, that's biologically threatening. it feels like your life is in danger, that's why living with dysphoria is so unbearable if it is not treated properly. I think what this game we are embarking on our mission to reduce human suffering and although we can't solve all the problems in the world we live in, we can at least study the inner universe of the human being, and try and map out this chaos, to find the answers that sustain us in life and make life worth living ultimately.