### The end
The ending of my Autobiography, is not the end of my life. It is the end of a book I'm choosing to close, and the start of a new thing. I've survived the worst, now, I know what I must do: live! I must live. Try new things. New experiences. Live life. Live the life you've been given. You are lucky & don't waste your opportunities. Life has handed you pretty good RNG, so don't waste it.

I'm grateful for the pain. For all those times I was in my room, isolated, confused, and hopeless. Becuase without those unbearable moments, I wouldn't get to see life in full colour. All those miserable moments shaped me to become who I am today, and that is enough of a reason to keep me alive. No mental illness could destroy what is true, and what is true is that I love life, so much. You will never take me away. I will always be here, fighting, even when nature decides to take my body back to the soil, my energy lives on in this Youniverse. Because that energy is timeless, it is what gave birth to the Youniverse, it is love.

I'm going to end this autibiography, with a letter to my teenage self.

> "Dear past me, if you're reading this, it's becuase love won in the end. I survived, we survived. I couldn't have done it without you. I want to tell you those days & nights you fought so hard... to feel something... to feel alive... it was worth everything. WHen you love someone, you'd do anything for them. Love is the only thing that makes life worth living, and in your excruciating descent to madness & hell, you found what makes human beings worthwhile in this earth. You discovered the answers to the universe — the important ones anyway. Speaking of which, I want to tell you some things I have learned, thanks to you. 1 - When I stopped thinking about things I cannot solve, I wanted to live again."

> "Dear teenage me, if you could see me today, who I became, what I survived, the experiences I've had, the life i've built, the people i've met, the things I've shared. If you could peer into the future, even for a moment, just to feel what I feel right now, it would be all you ened to keep going. Infact, I know you're still reading this becusae that's happened a couple of times already, hasn't it? What you're going through right now, i'm sorry to say, is going to get alot worse. But you will survive. You will hold on tight to that last thread of life, and trust it with your very soul. Don't let the demons take you early. Don't argue with simple-minded folk, you are more than them. You are precious, necessary, and  Thank you for choosing to listen to the fire within you, and letting it guide you. Thank you for choosing to hold onto life, even when all that was left as a tiny thread. Thank you for choosing yourself over the opinions, beliefs, standards & methods of others. Thank you, for choosing life."

Hazl was here. She lived fiercely. She burned. She loved.