throughout the stories in our youniverse, from the rebellion, to the kid and the ape, there is a double narrative, exploring our ideas of the inner youniverse. essentially, this is where most of life's battles occur, inside of the mind, inside of the broken heart, in the invisible parts of the human being. we tried to make those parts visible, or understandable. the paradox, is that each persona, each world, each element of significance, is a slice of the whole, which we can never fully understand, so we try to make parts of it visible. however, even in those parts, there are invisible elements. for the persona, there is the inner youniverse. so within the youniverse, each persona has their own youniverse. inspired by the concept of domains from jujutsu kaisen. we basically explore what happens when you treat words the way you would treat chemical reactions. how come some people are more sensitive than others? in what ways are they more sensitive, and in what ways are they more resilient than others? what are their strengths and weaknesses? if we treat the inner cosmos like alchemical reactions, then we start to realize that, this mythology becomes applicable to everyday Life to some degree. for example, when you logically debate someone else, and you ignore their humanity in favor for absolute logical truth, we visualize what that feels like, it almost feels like a beating to the heart. it almost feels like someone is slipping inside your youniverse, and they are taking what you love, what is most precious to you, what is in your heart, what makes your heart beat, and they are beating it out of you. using pure logic. I've experienced this in my life, so I have direct observation as to what this feels like, and a general representation of what it would look like. this is actually where most of the youniverse fights happen, it's not even physical hand to hand combat, the war is spiritual. it's invisible, it's inside. that's why some of the most important mentors and role models in our stories, are people who can map the inside youniverse as well as they can map the outside youniverse. 

- mentors like Dawn Zen teach inner peace but also resilience in a world of chaos. 
- Yami learns on his own, how to love himself and become strong even when nobody accepted him.
- the great ape, shows Nevaeh, how to use their imagination to protect what they love.
- even psychopaths like a Jacquees Mooder, clarify ethics, by pushing them to the breaking limits. 


each one of these personas, are visualized to be fighting, to be channeling, even harmonizing with parts of their own inner youniverse. in a similar way we are doing with our youniverse stories.

this is where a lot of the cinematica epica comes in. capturing and emphasizing part of the story. captured through a cinematic macro lens. that's essentially what Cinema is.

so when we have fighting scenes, they are usually taking place inside the persona. like when two people are playing chess, they aren't just playing chess, we visualize them to be heading into battle, to universes against each other. or when a firefighter is rushing into a fire to save someone, their inner universe literally becomes alive with fire. these are part of our theories, our understanding of the human condition. it is mostly invisible. it's not traceable by standard human equipment or instruments, because the best instruments we have as of now, is mythology, literature, and human creativity. to try and understand our own observations. it is my effort to try and understand my own emotions, how they influence my actions and decisions, and how I can practically share this, even as just a representation mythology. that is powerful in its own right, to make the invisible, visible, and to know what is useful when it is visible, that is most of the work of the human being. and if we can enjoy the process somehow, find joy to sustain us through the madness...!!