today is April 6, 2026. I feel absolutely sleep deprived and exhausted, but I chose to go outside because I realized, life is pain either way. whether I stay indoors, or whether I go and outside and prepare myself and face the pain of the real world, it's pain either way. And a powerful aspect of pain is that, the human being needs release. so today I cry and bad. I was just exhausted that I feel so invisible when I'm outside and I feel so powerless when I'm in social situations. but I understand that the solution is not too assumed human beings are the source of the problem, 

I'm a firm believer today, that every problem literally has a solution. This is why I love computation so much, and today I've been witnessing how complexity is literally chaos, and it's impossible for us and navigate okay. This is why we construct architecture and models and metaphors, I'm trying to build some kind of cognitive map or an understanding of how chaos and complexity works and more importantly how we can even navigate chaotic complex systems because they are everywhere. I guess incapulated it is field would be chaos agency. 

The problem with chaos is that when you find yourself inside within the chaos you almost literally cannot find a path that makes sense. I know that's because in the hardest moments, there is no theory or belief that helps me get through painful moments, and so I guess that's where human autonomy is the only answer. 

And that's where I correct my attitude although it is incredibly difficult.

In fact today, in the morning I was immersed first hand in the chaos of our file systems and notes and nothing made sense. I guess most the only thing is to get through it... fortunately theory and frameworks and even believes themselves have a half-life, so to speak, I think they sustain us but there is no singular answer to life's hardest problems. I think just like the chaotic nature of life, solutions and answers are usually almost always multifaceted. This is why the scientific approach is one of my favorite models.