the main plot of Los angeles, is that there are psycho soldiers, brain soldiers, neuro soldiers. basically, I just had a little vision while taking a fever nap. I just got extremely stressed out working on our website and overwhelmed with all of the systems and the UI and basically I just became an entangled mess, akin to poor cable management. but the thing is it's not entirely my fault, and I imagined a female military sergeant, perhaps scarlet, which is Nikki's mother. 

she was telling a tired soldier: "you're stressed out? good! that's the point! we can only discover solutions from inside the system, while you're out there actually fighting... (condescendingly) well, you're in your little brain neuro suit, but you know what I mean." 

retired soldier responds to her, "I know, I'm just tired. my brain hurts. it feels real." Sergeant Scarlett gets close to the soldier: "of course it feels real, it (e) is (/e) real. we're trying to discover the cure to human suffering so we can finally be freed from this madness! that's the dream of a doctor... he's the whole reason we're in this operation. so get in there soldier."

basically I imagined a capsule, and soldiers are on the battlefield, but it's a neuro battlefield. this is part of a devastating realization, I realized that at least if you suffer physically, you can see that it's real. you can see the marks the scars and you can feel it on your body. but if you suffer psychologically, you literally cannot see it. and this is a devastating part of the human experience. because if you can't see what you feel, it doesn't feel real. 

this is why almost all of the youniverse, our work is trying to personify and visualize and make invisible things visible. when they are visible they become real. the stress I felt today? coding endlessly and feeling lost and ashamed and guilty? if you could see the weight of work that I finished today, and more importantly what I felt... it would actually be disturbing... to be able to see the physical, real tangible interpretation of something emotional and psychological, and to view it to visualize the work that you've done. as if it had weight, because neurologically, it definitely does. that's why my brain was literally physically hurting. even though I was questioning the depth of pain I was experiencing "what really happened? why do I feel so awful? am I just stressed? am I doing something wrong? why does this always happen? the same thing, why does it keep happening? what can I do to avoid this from happening again? why can't I just have good perfect days? why can't I just have a happy days? why is this so hard?"

all of that seems to be, remind researching itself to try and validate pain tangibly. I think this is why it's so important to visualize things, at the very least to speak them out loud. because if we could visually see the weight, the physical matter of what we experience invisibly, that might be a new form of therapy. to be able to personify into visualize invisible things. there's something significant about that.