every time I work on ui, or anything design related, I feel stressed out rather than joy. there's this negative feedback loop, when I get stuck in pattern matching, endlessly tweaking settings, obsessing over making things look good. but it never feels quite right. 

That feeling? It just doesn't look right? That's actually because of a lack of understanding. That's what separates endless, smiles tinkering, from professional work.

UI is actually an incredibly deep field because it's not just about individual graphical elements (that's what it feels like to a developer)... to a professional ui/ux designer, the focus is always on the whole. rather than the individual elements. in fact, ui/ux designers prepare their workspace with visual language tools like color palettes, color theory, establishing font choices, and gathering inspiration sources. it is a field that requires stable focus, because it's actually an incredibly cognitively taxing activity. from the outside, it looks like it should operate a lot like art, but often, us software engineers have minds that are wired for architecture and details, which can become incredibly draining if we don't learn how to switch between UI mode and engineering mode. 

The most helpful theories/hypotheses in this area that we've developed, is the model view Source controller idea, Dynamic static theory, and essentially, it is about the program as the core, and the interface as different views of the core. 

however, pure cognitive architecture and Theory does not actually help you to avoid stress and burnout when you find yourself in those UI designing loops! so hey healthy concoction of caffeine, faith, humor, helps us to not get lost in the endless void of the pixels. 

the only practical thing that actually helps me avoid endless you I tinkering, is even before the program or the UI itself, it's actually in how I set up my tasks and environment. I purposefully don't let myself focus deeply on things, especially when I know I'm going to be designing visual elements. ideally, one would already have a established language of ready to use graphical components and themes, but sometimes, the engineering process is not so clear-cut, and you have to create things on demand sometimes, and that can be draining because it feels like you're fixing plumbing pipe work, with duct tape rather than new pipes. this is actually part of a deeper idea, [system destabilization](sysd.md)

You're not even thinking about the graphics themselves, you're thinking about the negative space, how it feels to interact, how fluid the motions are. This is why you I and software development are decoupled. And that's an incredibly important idea. This is actually a deeper cause, with planning your tasks themselves. And the environment as well. But to make this practical, we'll study my personal experience, and reverse engineer to make this practically applicable. 

this is why I care a lot about Theory and cognitive frameworks, because they shape how we create things and approach life itself. and so, I've been noticing that if you I design is so difficult, just imagine how this problem propagates to the rest of software, and even other parts of human life. so I think it's important to actually break down the theory of why you I works, and what constrained, professional UI/UX engineering really looks like. there are many more ways to do things incorrectly than there are to do them correctly, that's why it's so important to learn how to do things correctly!