# components of hopelessness and healing, and a theoretical unified system. 
what if we started the properties of hopelessness and healing, as polarities of the same system? what if the symptoms of one reveals the mechanics of the other? drawing from the philosophy of the [Tao Thai Ching]() the yin yang. "you cannot fundamentally understand something unless there is a contrast opposite. "

therefore luckily we have perhaps one of the sharpest contrasts there is to Human life, pain. in fact pain itself is experienced as a sharp immediate sensation physically. but there are many properties of pain, and there are many forms of pain. but pain is a concept is the biological driver of change. I think that is the meta definition of pain. it's not good or bad, it's change or a factor for change. 

so understanding the model of pain, leads us into the human consciousness form of pain, which is suffering. suffering is really only experienceable by consciousness. that may reveal what consciousness is or at least help us understand, because we experience pain fundamentally differently from other forms of life. 

but rather than digging deep into the functions of pain, what is of interest is how do you practically deal with pain in your life? and that's really what we're asking ourselves everyday. and you can't really study pain while experiencing pain, you have to sort of observe it from its contrast, and I think the opposite of pain is not pleasure, but rather healing. 

although healing could be considered a transitory mechanic between tissue damage and health, in the context of psychological emotional social, consciousness human pain, healing is the only medicine we have. pleasure, is a mere opposite of pain as a definition but not as a practical application. 

pain is inevitable in life, and suffering is unfortunately part of this human experience. 

that leads us to our core topic; hopelessness. if you imagined hopelessness as a domain, it would be a world that is deprived of life, slowly decaying, burning to ash, everything slowly dying. 

if hopelessness is the symptom of prolonged suffering, what equips the human being with adequate a stain? is it hope? meaning? I believe those are all parts of the same domain, the opposite of hopelessness, is engagement. being engaged with life. the expansion of consciousness as a lens of potential and actuality. it is a state described of as "purpose, bliss, meaning, devotion, and perhaps even love."

the most fundamental core model in all of our observations, especially when dealing with pain, is the yin yang. paying itself gives the contrast to life and it's the only reason we can experience good. however, this does not explain or give the human adequate reason to participate in a life where pain gives contrast to happiness, because a nihilist would ask you , from a almost God's eye perspective, what's the point of this duality if it will all end anyway? 

and that's fundamentally the problem with nihilism, it is incomplete in analysis, we human beings have a paradox. our imagination stretches to the seemingly infinite canvas that is the universe, but the body is almost humiliatingly tethered to the soil on earth. and so we have this almost Divine puppet nature where, some human beings seem to observe life from a meta perspective, this is possibly due to lack of engagement or meaning with life down here on earth. essentially, the Stars don't really concern us because we aren't living in that scope of life. this is why our universe concepts deal with the universe inside the human being. like a microscope rather than a telescope. what good is it to appear at the void outside, when there is so much life within yet to be discovered? it's like we're trying to build a cathedral from the outside. it's fundamentally reversed. it will always leave us feeling incomplete because the model we have as human beings is currently devastatingly and complete. just as Carl Jung himself said; "we know far too little of man."

of all the components aspects attributes and properties of hopelessness that I've observed so far in my life, I think you can fundamentally derive that time and space, consumed by entropy the laws of physics, is essentially why hopelessness is often described as pointlessness. what's the point? that's not just a figure of speech that is literally asking what is the point? what is the point of all of this? what is the meaning what is the purpose? so you could derive from our own human language that meaning is like a point in space. and fundamentally the human being is a physically oriented creature. we cannot exist without the constraint of direction. what this means is that if you don't have a reason to suffer, when you are faced with pain in life, despite the individual's threshold and temperament and psychology, fundamentally the human being experiences pain as pointlessness. pain can be sharp or dull, it can be physical or psychological. it can be isolating or shared. 

fundamentally, if we understand the components of hopelessness, then we can derive that the most important part of healing, is to have an expansive scope of time. meaning, if you're able to dream of a life worth living in the future, that this moment will not be your life forever, I believe once the perception of time expands, the perception of space expands along with it, and then, pain has a point. there is a point to suffering. because it fits as part of a larger ecosystem of meaning in the human being's life. 

the tragedy is that this is still very abstract and not very well understood and we are really observing it in real time. like I'm actively dreaming of what a life worth living for me would look like. who would I become? not who could I have theoretically become, not to myself in an alternate reality, but what is practically possible within the life that I am living? within this current reality? I believe this is really the beginning of true healing. especially when you don't have access to support. when we don't have the cognitive tools or medicine, I believe within our nature we still have the ability to heal. I believe our ancestors knew this and this is why communities were so integral in our development, and now we're seeing a phenomenon of technology that is supposed to be social and connecting the entire world together, but we feel more isolated than any point in history. although this is straying off into a separate domain...