# Perceptual Schematics
An observation of human perception, psychoanalysis, and practical model

## Abstract 
We were realizing, the reason why I love the movie I robot so much, is because not necessarily for the movie itself but rather the emotional memory content that it holds. it reminds me of a life that was completely different. a time when life was actually worth living. when I was a child I used to watch that movie and I would just dream of becoming an adult from me and living as an adult. I imagine the doctor to be like life from above so to speak. not only because that's how I physically experience to Life as a child, but also because it is how I literally imagined life to be as an adult. more power. more fun. Liberty freedom control. things that as a child I relinquished. how I imagine the doctor to be. just an expansive lens of beauty, almost as if the world was a canvasive beautiful experiences just awaiting my agency. however when I became an adult I was met with almost a comic tragedy. be complete opposite of is expensive lens, I found the trauma depression and the pain of such depraved depth, that I essentially lost, not only the treating me out of the child, but the ability to dream at all. that's essentially what trauma does, it narrows the perceptual lens until all that is left, is pointlessness, quite literally pointlessness. 

and so we as human beings live in the exact same world, we absolutely do not live in the same lens of reality. I think for now we could call this concept perceptual schematics, because essentially it's not just an automatic response to trauma or happiness, perceptual schematics seem to be like architectural blueprints for how we perceive and see the world of living. I think the Eastern concept of Eco is essential here because we filter the world we live in through our ego, through our identity, and the story we accept about ourselves.

although we do not seem to be authors of the world, we are most definitely co-creators. any artist will tell you that the most magical place in the entire world is when they are one with their craft. almost as if the ego , the self, the boundary between who You are and what you are doing, blurs. that is essentially the positive form of integration. trauma does this as well, but it is the negative form, which we call, disintegration. it is a horrifying state, what the Hebrews described as hell, or the Buddhists describe the suffering, disintegration is basically the psychological human state of complete, absolute eclipse. 

almost like an equinox of the soul. the sun is still exists, but it is being shadowed by an object in front of your view. so no Light reaches you even though it exists behind the object. you don't know if the light is even real anymore or if the shadow is always there, and this is where the scariest part occurs, you lose the ability to dream. you lose track of time. you essentially lose coordination in time, in your memories, and our memories are a map of history and history is a map of time, and when the human being loose orientation with time, we lose orientation and space, and when we lose orientation in space, but this is where the scariest human conditions emerge. psychosis,schizophrenia, illness, depression, delusion, delirium. 

there's no perfect solution to any of these problems but we at least must map and understand The Human condition because it is unethical to allow human beings to experience suffering of this scale.

I believe it is my life's work, to contribute to the creation of a map of the inner youniverse. I believe it will help us solve the problems of excess suffering.

the practical model of this observation theory, is that we first must understand where we currently exist along the health spectrum. once we establish our orientation, we can...?
