# Exoskeletal Theory

> Radical: Externalizing Experience, reveals hidden structures, and may also help human beings solve the hardest problems in life.

this is an observation of how, we can map experience to expertise, and that's pretty much the foundational basis of our ethical work. I think it's the basis of everything we do. like we're trying to understand the human experience, and trying to map it out into an expertise, a field. this is how mathematics emerged and science. they began as human experience. but the reason this is an exoskeletal theory is because when we see the hidden structures of nature, the skeleton is no longer inside the body, now it's exoskeletal. but the danger with that, is we lose direct connection to the experience that made the expertise possible. and so there's always a trade-off, between experience and expertise. because when we study something and we shape it and we model it, it's no longer just passive experience. but at the same time it loses ??

this observation was also fundamentally sourced from my own life, I realized weights, so many experiences go missing, forgotten not even recorded in memory. and they are directly the insights that we need to solve the biggest problem in our life. the things that are passive and the things that we repeat, that's the experience. and I think if we can just map out the experience onto an expertise, we can understand it. and when we can understand it we can solve problems and have more of the good. I think most human beings are really chasing this. I think this is what we really are chasing as human beings, well most of us. 

if we think about it, this is how mathematics emerged, from our ancestors counting purely out of intuition, using our fingers to keep track of things. and then tally marks on her cave wall became the first primitive form of externalized memory. I think that's when we realized, we could count and keep track of things. and I think that's where mathematics, the primitive language emerged. it started from Human experience and then externalized into expertise. I believe the biggest problems in human life, will be solved by approaching the complexities of life through this idea. through the exoskeletal idea.