# Significance of the Persona
In the Youniverse, the persona isn't just a personified thing, they are a compressed reality (each persona has their own youniverse, with their own personas). This explains why it is incredibly therapeutic to personify, anthropromorphize, and externalize abstract parts of life, into human beings. We recognize in them, life that we cannot see when it is abstract.


A miraculous analysis and application of the persona, is Joey Doom for example. When I look at Katerina, I see my own pain. My uncried tears. The trauma nobody will ever see
When I look at Joey doom, I no longer fear pain . when I look at him I no longer see pain is the worst part of human life. I think that's the true power of a persona. I think the reason why the persona, the character in a story is the deepest part of the story, is because according to our astrophysics model, every human being has some mirror image of a cosmos within them. I mean if you look at ourselves, biologically, that's pretty much a universe living within us. but philosophically and psychologically and spiritually, the universe is more of a collection of the mysterious hidden drivers of the human being. the memories of the beliefs the emotions especially. and so each persona is essentially a compressed universe. and you can't really experience all of that universe inside them, it's just too much information density. and so the persona has to be a narrow perspective of life, in order to be experienceable by the human senses. but make no mistake, each persona is a gateway into another universe, another mirror of the self.