# Analysis of the Void

It seems that, Even in the nature here on earth, there are creatures and forces **that just hate life.** Like... there are things that want to destroy life. When I first observed this, I was like a scientist having an existential panic... I could see both through a microscope, and a telescope... and the same patterns appeared everywhere. I was both horrified, and relieved. Horrified that parasites even exist, and relieved that atleast, I was working towards an understanding of suffering, pain, evil and cruelty.

I think it's too analytical on it's own. The scientific lens studies it without bias, and we need bias for something of this nature. So in our Youniverse, we this parasitic idea as "the void within the youniverse". It's not a cute mythos, it's the only way we can metabolize the horrific parts of this life.

One of the strangest paradoxes is that you can't directly examine something that does not exist. until you have to look at it's effects on things that do exist. and so I think this explains why parasites and disease and illness and viruses exist. they are like manifestations of something that just wants to delete everything. regardless of its reasons, the void can be considered as true evil. which is evil without reason. evil without justification. pain damage and suffering, just for the sake. and I think this is why the void is such a complicated idea because you can't really face the magnitude and horror of evil on your own as a human being. we know because we were completely overwhelmed and crushed by sadness and helplessness, studying human history and looking at some of the most depressing places on Earth today. 

That's when I realized, the human being cannot fight this thing on their own. this is exactly where the parasites idea comes back in. because the void itself does not want to exist. and yet you can't really delete life because life will persist and continue especially when pain and damage and suffering are present. that's the whole reason the immune system exists. and so the void somehow discovered that in order to destroy life it has to operate as if it were alive. and so parasites literally just exists to destroy the hosts and multiply more of itself so that it can then destroy more hosts and exponentially multiply itself. it's a really terrifying disgusting horrible idea because it's really the only way we can describe the force and horror of real evil. it's almost like a thing that never stops and something you cannot directly fight on your own. and one of the most horrific ideas of avoid is that if you want the pain to stop, and if you wanted to stop multiplying, you shouldn't exist to begin with. because then if you don't exist, pain doesn't exist. that's one of the biggest traps of the void, to convince you that it is not real. to convince you that life is just pain and suffering and futility. I almost ended my life because of these nihilistic existential beliefs, I can only describe something as god, as pure light that saved my life. it's really what I dedicate my life's work too. I'm not a perfect human being. I make mistakes. and yes I feel pain and suffering, but I also feel alive. and I feel stressed. and I feel anger. and I feel sadness. and sometimes, sometimes when I'm lucky enough, I feel blessed to just be alive. and that's a completely different perspective than nihilism. because now I actually feel the sacredness of life. that's really the only weapon we have against the void. because the biggest weapon to avoid has, is convincing that it doesn't exist. while playing the same game of life, multiplying itself and destroying the hosts, overwhelming the human being. 

this is probably the most important thing we can learn as human beings today. because suffering will always be part of life. and given enough suffering, the human will, it will collapse eventually. like a structure under stress. and so we have to understand how we can fight against something that we can't even see.

it really is our duty as conscious beings. especially to help our younger human beings