# Ethical guide of Joey Doom's story.


It's really important that we understand the ethics of Joey Doom's story. He has self-destructive tendencies which will absolutely be misinterpreted by some readers/viewers as "Oh, I should copy what he's doing."

This is actually one of the hardest parts of writing stories, and it's only visible from the meta-author's perspective. Which we explored in-depth [here](#). The question of _"How do we tell stories, that express trauma, but don't re-traumatize the human being?"_ That's fundamentally an architectural question. And in a story, the best architecture we have to work with, is found in the surrounding nodes... in other words... the people closest to Joey Doom, should guide his self-destruction, towards a channeled path of ethics. Not to glorify pain, but to glorify healing, while capturing his emotionless, soldier essence. __Essentially, Expression re-direction without censorship of source.__

I think the only way we can express his story, but ethically, is by Don Zen. through Don's and, we realize that Joey dooms life ideology, his belief that pain is good, is completely challenged by Don Zen's character. and everything he does, specifically his fighting style because this is really how we express the persona. Joey dream fights a very self-destructive style, he essentially is the kind of person that would let you stab him if it means he can stop you back too. he only does this because he was so severely traumatized that the only way he could survive was to accept pain as reality. similar to Madara from Naruto Shippuden. however Joey Doom is not based on futility, rather he believes he is a warrior with a program that he must follow. that is literally who he is. he doesn't question it. he believes only pain is real. 

but the ethical side of his story is that, Don's and challenges his belief by introducing the idea of balance and equilibrium yin and yang. his fighting style is so much more powerful than Joey dooms destructive martial arts. dancing eventually helps him learn the art of duality. yes pain is real but so is light. officer mayor also challenges Joey dooms ideology, by becoming sort of a father figure for him. and it's interesting because officer mayor resembles almost Joey dooms appearance as if he was the adult version of Joey doom. he has a similar hairstyle, similar skin tone, both of them have Asian ethnicity, but they have fundamentally different beliefs. 

Joey don't believe only pain is real, and he must become strong. officer mayor believes that the world is a tragic place and that is why Justice and virtue must be the fundamental drivers of his strength. he doesn't merely train for it physical reason, officer mayor trains to sculpt his mind his spirit and lastly his body, The vessel the container. his philosophy was actually shaped by cloud, which was mayor's mentor before he died. and so we can begin to see how vastly interconnected their stories are. resembling real human relationships.