this is fascinating honestly.. I find it hard to believe that people have literally built flight simulators inside spreadsheets. that's almost preposterous beyond understanding... this is why I enjoy esoteric languages and pushing technologies to their breaking points, because it shows what is possible with extreme constraint. when we often work so hard, given limitless options, but when the environment has specific limitations, it cultivates creativity that is almost only possible with small local worlds, tiny sets of rules.

but I'm going to branch that into another discussion. for now, let's focus on the preposterous possibility of an entire flight simulator, implemented in a spreadsheet! this reminds me of projects I have seen by people online, such as, running Terraria inside terraria, using the wiring mechanics... I don't think we understand how incredible video games are, that they allow us to basically bootstrap environments that cultivate human creativity invention and imagination. Minecraft is also another great example. and for some reason spreadsheets are attractive to those who are oriented towards data, mathematics, relationships, and code. so it's fascinating to me how eventually this emerges into a natural world simulator, like a flight simulator. that is almost too ridiculous to believe... especially Ray tracing / raycasting inside of spreadsheets? it's almost fascinating because it's an environment so unbelievably constrained compared to the full power of code, and so we get to see, perhaps the most locally minimal version of the complex phenomena. almost like a petri dish in science. I think that's what I consider these environments...