we recently had a discussion on Apple's design philosophy, using components and architecture language, as applied to the creation of software, creating cohesive and coherent experiences; for both the engineer and the applicant.   
  
given this, I believe it is useful at this stage to experiment with prototypes, researching different paradigms, different syntaxes, and prototyping and testing them by building real projects. this is where language becomes complex, because designing systems, and building systems, are two separate cognitive environments; they demand a different parts of human cognitive abilities...  
... while I don't understand the science entirely, I do understand the phenomenology!  
  
given this, here are three syntax constraint types, which I've developed and prototyped in my own project, each with different use cases. essentially, the purpose of this stage of the research, is to settle on a strict set of constraints, I supported by our discussion on apple/web components.   
  
syntax variant one: using pure objects and classes to define everything in the program. this means that even the program itself, can be queried and manipulated as an object. it's inspired by lisp and many others.  
  
fig.   
  
```JS  
new Construction("Type").verb(1).assign(new ID(5))  
```  
  
the second syntax variant is even closer to natural language; functions cannot be passed as arguments. essentially, it follows a chain sequence for everything, even arguments   
  
fig.  
  
```JS  
new Construction("Type").verb(1).assign().inst("ID").arg(5)  
```  
  
the third syntax variant is using something like mathematical variables, where instead of naming things directly, we simply use variables as pointers, and we use comments to add a metadata. I think this solves one of the biggest problems in code; naming something, where we can only use a limited range of language.   
  
```JS  
const x =   
```  
  
another syntax type is using pure formulas  
  
```JS  
store(add(num(64), num(32)), "y")  
from("y", add(32))  
```  
  
this syntax type can become incredibly verbose, but it's worth exploring  
  
that's actually an interesting idea, because this project emphasizes constraint and patterns as a founding guiding principle, and naming in classical programming, by default is one of the biggest constraints, because we are only allowed to work with a single unit, where white space is not allowed, only underscores and alphanumeric characters are allowed.   
  
that's a deep area of computation, cybernetics, neuroscience, linguistics, semiotics, information theory, and a lot of other fields. but without getting lost in the study, I've experimented with using mathematical variables and annotation comments, which visually spaces the code and inline documentation, and it provides a sense of narrative continuity, where otherwise code becomes naturally too complex to reason about.   
  
e.g.  
  
  
instead of pure source  
  
```JS  
class Data { constructor(x){} ...}  
```  
  
Narrative guides the code (not "what it's doing, but why it's structured.)  
  
```JS  
/**   
 * Data is one of three foundational, classical series of computation; data in it's most abstract state, without type. Example usage of this class: *"new Data(5).as(x)"*  
 */  
class Data {  
  
    /**   
     * The constructor enables an interface of properties to describe the instance of Data. The value to store in the data instance, of any type.  
     */  
    constructor(x) {  
  
        /** The 'data' property holds the actual data value, which can be of any type. This allows for flexibility in the types of data that can be stored and manipulated within the Cybernetica system.  */  
        this.data = x;  
  
        /** This operation initilaizes upon instantiation. */  
        this.init();  
    }  
    init() {  
  
    }  
```  
  
...  
  
in conclusion, these are paradigms, syntaxes, and ideas that eventually will be compiled into a cybernetic interface language, that can interface on top of pre-existing Source languages, like javascript, rust, see, etc. basically it's part of my project "Cybernetica" in which we apply principles from other complex fields, such as chemistry, video game engineering, and even sheet music, to make source code clear to work with. it's implications are pretty important, because as I've mentioned countless times previously, many of the systems that power modern human life, can be directly attributed to, "once upon a time, a human being writing source code"... I believe source code should be treated the way we treat assembly today; powerful but not useful as it's raw state.   
  
I also have other research papers which I have attached to this discussion, they explore the theory and propositions and research of this project, more clearly than I compiled in these notes. however, those papers eventually had missing syntax variations, so I decided to compile them as quickly and easily as possible, in the short notes.   
  
it's an exciting area of software engineering, and people like myself, who find it impossible to build large-scale systems, entirely from source, (especially web development, with how noisy and powerful it is...) will benefit from this, the way musicians benefited from sheet music, at least that is my vision!