---
title: "Ideas as navigable possibility."
gpt: "https://chatgpt.com/share/6a1d3a8e-84fc-83ea-88a2-d152d63f7a58"
---

I have a general hypothesis, really about human nature, but in a biological sense, not necessarily the tragic philosophical lens we often hear about, when thinking of the human condition. so, I think about the phenomenon of ideas. and how essentially modern civilization, civilization even at local scale, is only possible because we human beings have the ability to think. to process the world, to imagine. this is significant because, it allows us to build structures, create rules, laws, and essentially discover structure and order where otherwise the conditions of life make it so that we are in constant need for supply of energy. essentially, it's the principle of entropy, or the second law of thermodynamics, in which no system is 100% resource efficient. everything naturally decays. whether it's energy in the form of organization, or energy in the form of nutrition, this is a central idea to my hypothesis... because, if we are in constant energy decay (as are all of systems, according to the laws of physics)...

The central hypothesis that I'm formulating, emphasizes the importance of the idea, as a fundamental unit of information for human beings. we don't merely process the world as bits and bites, the way a computer would process electrical signal. we process life in a much more embodied, metabolized, organic stream of information, through our senses, through our ability to think and process and reflect and improve and practice and remember. basically all of the functions that differentiates human beings, from the most intelligent mammals. those are the functions that I'm emphasizing here, and especially, emphasizing the importance of the idea as a fundamental unit of information for human beings. 

so I think here is where it becomes incredibly biologically significant, not merely philosophical. basically, I often wonder why some of us, often experience life through a completely different lens as compared to other people. and in this quest, almost literally a question as a quest, I started researching ideas from psychologists such as Carl Jung and Jordan peterson. This is deeply fundamental to the hypothesis, because their work, their ideas shaped my character, who I am today as a human being. my identity, the thoughts I cultivate, the person I choose to be everyday, is largely a contribution work, a mutual net, of heroes and historical figures that essentially shape the human being. we are not isolated nodes, even if it may feel that way for highly sensitive individuals like myself, I realize that people like myself have highly specific needs and requirements. we require the correct environment, just like a giraffe would require the temperature and climate of a savanna, because that's what it's biology evolved for. I believe we human beings are the same. but I don't want this to spam too deeply into other theories I'm working on, so I want to emphasize the importance of the idea, specifically serving as a biological function for highly sensitive individuals like myself. so what I realized by the historical figures, and people who inspired me, is that I finally discovered an area of life that makes sense to me. it's almost as if a little cell, traveling a vast journey, finally discovered a space where not only it belonged, but where it was required. that's what purpose feels like to me. I think that's how I could describe purpose, Harmony and resonance, and it's fundamentally based on the environment. I'm sure the Greek studied this. it's a fundamental aspect of being human. one simply cannot force themselves to change identity according to an environment, and our identity is one of the core aspects of being a human. 

but the main idea in this conversation, is, well, the idea as a fundamental unit of information for human beings. and I believe ideas are important, not only because they transmit information and possibility through time and space, but because ideas were processed through another life, another nervous system, another human being. what's even more fundamental, is that I believe, people like myself who often feel isolated, are notorious in history for being brilliant and often, the odd one out. 

here's the court emphasis of my hypothesis; I believe that the significance of an idea, is far more than mere information transfer... I believe an idea is a cognitive / psychological sign of life. a mapping of psychological space. this is significant, because not only is it philosophically dense, but I truly believe that, just as we human beings map the physical terrain of the world, we also map the terrain of the information world, this is essentially what we know as subject and fields. there's a reason fields are highly specific, and there's a reason why many fields branch and often intersect, because we are studying the same phenomenon, from different perspectives. and we need those different perspectives because the whole is too complex to understand. this is fascinating because if we do the same for information, I think it explains why art may be our only reliable cartography of the human soul/psychology. 

very few things unlock that hidden ancestral anatomy, this sense of adrenaline, almost like a soldier heading into battle, or a first responder saving someone's life. I know it's getting very serious, but that's the power of the human being who was aligned in the correct environment, equipped with cartography to navigate the unknowns of life. 

and I believe that ideas, are signs of life. signs that someone else has mapped to the psychological space, and not only has this space been mapped; the atlas has survived . the information survived. the human being is not merely a carrier of information, the human being is a symbiotic co-author of the natural world.... we shape the world around us just as much as it shapes us. that's a fundamental cybernetic feedback loop. 

what's even more important about ideas surviving, is that it shows if another human being has mapped to the space, and they have survived; then survival is possible. and I believe there's nothing more biologically significant than survival.. speaking purely from a darwinian sense of self-preservation; it is perhaps the most important function of a living system, especially for human beings. once we lose the will to preserve the self, that's essentially when we see people give up on life. there's nothing more tragic than someone who suffers, and gives up hope, because unlike engines, we human beings cannot forcefully change; without requiring deep structural resources. this goes back to the idea of energy, if systems in general are losing energy and requires supply, then the will to live is the only function that keeps the system alive. it's even more essential than energy itself. it's perhaps the fundamental source of energy; psychologically speaking for human beings. 

now I want to explore a little bit more on my hypothesis of how we human beings change. and essentially I mentioned how we are not like engines, we cannot simply be mechanically, logically destructured or programmed, we are co-creators, co-authors with the natural world. and this is why ideas are so important because they are one of the few sources of information/energy, that can become processed directly in the engine, the clockwork of psychology. I think metaphorizing cumin psychology as clockwork, is really important, because I often feel like human psychology is a maze of amazes. where one part changes 20 others. and 20 parts change 200 parts. that resembles a classic problem of graph interconnectedness, where one member of a node is so deeply interconnected in the system, that changing any of its properties, causes downstream effects that are impossible to predict...

now why is this significant? because I believe ideas have the power to shift gears in that clockwork of human psychology. where everything is interconnected, yet there is a hierarchy, there is structure and order, there is an identity, a persona, memories, an entire historical life embedded into the tapestry of biology. it's beautiful and terrifying, and it's an area of psychology I have to study more with Carl Jung's life work, because it's no longer appreciating the idea of an idea, so to speak, trying to define all of humans psychology as a singular idea, never fully quite captures what real human experience is like. I'm not sure if the Greeks understood the difference between this, capturing full tragedy or beauty, in their work, and understanding that a lot of our knowledge is tacit. and bodied. unspoken but understood. I think that's why artwork so well. it's one of the few psychological remedies that have sustained me when I did not have access to any other kind of support. and spirituality is also a deeply personal aspect of the self, but I don't want to get lost in religion or mysticism, because that's a sensitive topic for another discussion! the emphasis for this discussion was my hypothesis of the importance of ideas, especially as an aid of remedy, for the human being who is highly sensitive, and does not have the cartography necessary to function at optimum.

so there are several ideas and keep themes explored here, especially the symbols. I forgot emphasize earlier, but the historical and social figures that influenced and shaped who I am today, showed me that ideas were often far more important and revolutionary, during times of physical and psychological exhaustion... even more so, than scientific literature or specific key facts. that is not to diminish the functional property of scientific work, but I think because these topics are deeply psychological and biological, it's no longer a question of logic, academia, or knowledge as a source of sustenance, what I'm describing here is the deep problem of unmapped human psychology, and how ideas often travel through time and space in this unmapped clockwork, and they often reach the areas that need life the most. and I think the reason for that is because again, ideas carry life within them. if an idea survived, it is unlike other forms of information, because an idea was carried by another human being. it survived. that survival is quite literally what drives us. I think it's irreducibly important. but I do have to continue working on these hypotheses and ideas... to make sure I am not overemphasizing my bias of ideas as a positive influence! because ideas can absolutely be catastrophic just as much as it can be influential and positive... perhaps that is where my hypothesis should halt analysis, and we should explore these ideas at current state. understanding throughout history or figures recently, who have spoken on observation similar in this area. hopefully I can find good citations for this work.
