As of my early adulthood, the only way I have found myself to naturally cry, is by remembering memories from childhood movies that I loved way back when I was a child. 

One night, recnelty, I cried so beautifully to this memory from the [2006 Cars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cars_(film)) movie, where Lightning McQueen is riding in the waterfall with Sally. I cried becuase the scene was so heavenly, and I had forgotten what life was like back then. It was so simple, no internal monologue, no worries about humanity, the world, or meaning. No philosophy, no thoughts, no inner-critic, no trauma-awareness, no hyper-vigilance... just me and experience. That was bliss... and the saddest part, was when I remembered EXTREMELY VIVID memories of imagining what life would be like when I reached my age... my 20s. I just felt in my heart I would be free and live a life where NOBODY told me what to do! and i cried becuase i completely lost that feeling for most of my life, only to re-discover it one faithful night, as I was lying down in my bed, watching the scenes on Youtube... the scene came out of nowhere & I just started crying. I couldn't cry for years becuase of extreme trauma & suicidal ideation... and i was so sad that life turned out this way... and I had never expected life to be this sad. but now, i've realized how beautiful that moment was, and i'm still going :) stronger than ever, being the mother to my inner child, loving her, protecting her, guarding her, not from the world outside, but from the world within. Remembering my memories, building a safe world inside (imagination, youniverse, games, etc) & outside (room, ocassional park).