This is my life story. I'm writing this because I've survived hell & I know how to survive my own personal hell. If there is anything I decidate my life to, I will dedicate my life to helping you heal & understand pain. Pain seems to be the most immediate feeling, and sensitive souls will think about this alot, even if there is no active pain, the chance always exists... and for some reason, my brain fixates on how terrible things can get, rather than how beautiful they could be.

If you are reading this, I am writing this while listening to great music (Sleep Token). Speaking of music, it's one of the things that saved me from jumping infront of a train. I've struggled with mental disorders ever since my teenage years.

Anime & Video games were the only things that kept me from falling apart completely & ending my own life. Far before I learned to mother myself, I hated my life. I hated everyone & everything. But the one thing in this world I loved was music.

I intend to write this as if it were the only sign of life that I ever left behind... no this is not a suicide letter (those voices in my head are getting annoying!) Speaking of which, suicide, death and depression are the center elements in my life story... it is becuase without death, I would have never appreciated my life.


It's like I finally found a place where I belong. I know that for the rest of my existence, I will know nothing. But perhaps, I can dedicate my existence to sharing... helping to make the world a better place has weighed so heavily on my shoulders, that I only walk on my legs now. But for the last bit ofhope remaining in me, I will continue to exist. Not to find hope, or happiness, or love, but to find answers to the most important questions we as human beings ask. Also, if i'm beautiful while doing it, that's a bonus, lol.