# My inner world
These are more than just characters to me: they are real parts of my insides.

- **The mother** she is my adult/future self. I imagine myself beautifully adorned, in a life that seems both far, and nearing with every day I fall asleep. A life where I get to share my stories, help people, leave something good behind, solve problems, and enjoy my lavish, luxurious lifestyle, free of the pain i've survived.
- **The inner child** I imagine myself as two main versions: my mother, adult self, and my child self. Both are equally halved within me, and i'd say psychologically, they are what keeps me sane, together, and alive.
- **The children friends:** these friends are the same age as my inner child. They are stuck in the safety of childhood imagination, but they want to break free one day and explore the world, as the truest form: the mother. I haven't seen them within my consciousness, like, ever, but I know they're there. Perhaps the written stories I write are witness.
- **The mask:** the mask, a play on words from the word: masculine, splled as maskuline, is the most masculine, cool, aggressive, relentless part of me. This is the part of me that protected me. He never gives up, even if his body is torn to shreds, he somehow, always gets back up. He is a facade I played all my life, until one day, I played with words and I realized something profound: mask-u-line, and femi-nine. Line, and Nine. These two words seemingly unrelated, I realized, the masculine side of me was a play-pretend character that protected me all throughout my teenagehood, but now, it was time to bury him, and become my honest, most authentic raw self.
- **The femboy:** he is the bridge between the masculine & the feminine beings within me.
- **The artist:** the artist has no gender, and can become anyone. They are the reminder that I'm here in this planet to create and share, not to conform or explain myself.
- **The philosopher** seeks to understand human nature & life itself. It's less about philosophy and more about finding reasons to keep living, even when my brain says it's time to stop.
- **The dark humorist** this version of me is new, they see the little light inside the black void in my heart. Now... theire humor is too inappropriate to share here, but let's just say, if it's not meant to be spoken out loud, I can trust this side of me to make fun of it & not give a fuck!
- **The intellect** the intellect is the smartest part of me... sometimes, i have alien-like thoughts that I can only describe as hallucinogenic mushroom trips, as if i'm thinking outside the box of my own consciousness. I try not to spend too much time in this place, as things break apart quickly. It's a very unstable part of my psychology, but one that lets me bridge my inner & outer life, my intelligence, the catalyst. However, intelligence alone would destroy me, becuase everything needs to work together in harmony, so what keeps that harmony within me? It's back to the mother & child. They are all that matter to me in this world.
- **The introspectionist:** this is the part of me that examines & observes my inner world
- **The shadow:** this is the nastiest, darkest, part of me. I hear the shadow's voice in my head, and his voice get's even louder whenever i'm around others. Usually, his fuel is anxiety, and he feeds off of my 
