# Transitioning
I accepted myself as a transwoman at the age of 21. After wrestling & resisting who I am, I made peace with what I could not change, and so I started to love myself that way, as a foundation.

# Story
Though I still feel ugly, wierd & unloved in my body, I'm learning everyday to love myself & learning to be as womanly & beautiful as I deserve to be. I used to go outside with long black shirts on my head, so it made me feel like I had hair. My family wasn't the most accepting, but they also didn't reject me. However, that's not good enough for someone as sensitive as me. I could still see it in their eyes, they saw my old self. They didn't love me for who I am, they loved me for who I was. And that made me want to isolate myself.

One of the things I struggled with the most in my early transition was trying to get people to understand me. I hated how I was treated as my old self, and no matter how many times I explained to them, they never remembered. I came to such a dark, depression, isolated place in my life, that everything became so bad, that I just started laughing. It was almost as if ending my own life was no longer available — I had to give myself the best life. Why? I don't know exactly why, but as if a circuit board inside me, had a complete system failure, and miraculously, it started working again.

Something that saved my life, was imagining my dream life. All my life I thought I had a loving family, until I showed who I truly was, they showed me, they never truly loved me. That broke my heart, it broke right past the waters & into my deepest core. It nearly killed me to come face-to-face with the fact that nobody in my life loves me the way I need to be loved... but then... that is when transformation began.

I remember fighting with my family members about our beliefs, we all believed our side of the story was the truth... the we never sat down & actually listened to each other. That kind of stuff could avoid war, but we human beings seem to be a long way off from becoming full empaths. Speaking of which, that is waht I believe is the ultimate purpose of evolution, and therefore, of human life. To evolute. As the rapper XXXTentacion said, "the purpose of life is to create & evolve."

# 
The best way I could describe how I've felt my entire life is a feeling of being on the wrong side of life. Like nature made a mistake, and forgot to give me the girl parts. But once I transcended human gender & identity (it took an impossible amount of pain to realize this), I was able to detach myself from my identity, and that meant I could rebuild it back again.

Well, more honestly, it felt my very soul was obliterated into oblivion. Between the way I was treated by other human beings, and my own inner negative critic, I was being puhed from both directions, the outside & the inside. The only reason I did not kill myself was becuase I realized the preciousness of my life, through the eyes of children who suffered tremendously, and yet, had the will to smile.

That completely tore open my insides, in such an existentially painful way. The love I felt from those children & their parents, broke me apart, and it shattered my idea of life ultimately being a cruel game of suffering, where only a few lucky people get to experience the good life, and people like me, were screwed from the moment I was born. Those pessimistic thoughts, wre not false, but they presented themselves to me as true. It felt good. It relieved me. It was therapeutic to wallow & immerse myself in my sadness and helpless incapability to do anything good in my life. And so, this is where the downfall of hopelessness began in my life.

But those children saved my life. I'll say it till the day I die. Even in the moments I could not love myself. Even in the moments I hated living inside my body. Even in those moments where I looked beneath my feet, to the ground below, and had this peaceful wish to just end all the madness... it was in those moments the memories of the children came to me, and I realized I was in error. I aws only seeing the half-truth, the hardest part of truth, is that you have to accept both the good & the bad, even when it goes against what you feel. And truth? The truth was there were human beings out there, who had a worse life than I did. Spending all of their days in bed, in the care of their parents.

And so I asked myself: "What is the purpose of existence itself? Why not let it delete itself? Do I not have the right to my own death? If I was given a life, against my will, why can't I atleast end it, by my will?" These were the most difficult questions, and will always be, the most difficult question for me. 

Seeing abused animals, come back to life. Animals that were two steps away from euthanasia. Not all animals were saved. But the one's that were saved, they had such a beautiful existence, and the happiness in their eyes, was beyond the depth of depression I had experienced. Love, was the only thing that can bring together back those broken parts. It is the only thing in this universe, that ties me together. 

And love, is full of suffering. To me, love is enduring the suffering, for the sake of loving itself. It almost has it's own energy, stronger than gravity or hatred. It justifies it's own existence. And unfortunately, becuase love exists, evil exists aswell.