good morning beautiful. I had a dream about expressing my sadness, about being a trans female, and I was talking to a group of girls. I can't remember where it was, and I don't recognize them, but I felt like I could trust them. they felt like family. they felt like katseye, the K-pop group. like everyone is open to each other. that's basically what I give myself everyday, no matter how hard it gets. I guess myself friendship and love and motherhood, and I do the very best I can. because I love myself. 

so in the dream, I was talking to this trans girl, and I think she looks a lot like this trans girl porn girl, I can't remember her name. basically, I noticed her images on a magazine, and then I basically told her you're trans right? as you were sort of like awkwardly shocked. I know that feeling. when you're a trans female, you don't want people to know you're trans. you just want to be yourself. you just want to be seen for who you really are. it's the most painful thing when the person you are on the outside, is not the same person you are on the inside. at least not visually. that hurts so much. I'm still trying to understand why. at least in this dream, I know that somewhere, deep in my own subconscious, we are working on these things. I trust in God.

I sat down with the group of girlies. I remember that I just started expressing how sad I felt. I think someone noticed that I kept covering my mouth. and it's because I fucking hate the facial hair that grows on my face everyday. and so I have to cover myself, and I also feel sad about my facial structure and the bottom of my face, but I love myself no matter what. I love my pretty almond shaped eyes. I have really beautiful brown coffee ice, with patterns of tree trunk rings. my eyes are really beautiful.

I told the girlies, how sad it is for someone who is trans or something. I wasn't victimizing myself but I was expressing how difficult it is to be trans. basically, I said, you just want the outside you to match the inside you. something like that...