the therapeutic power of literature, and stories in all their vast forms, is that essentially, human consciousness is like a lens, a cursor, whatever we place attention to, whatever our perspective becomes, fundamentally shapes how we see the world. this is actually proto worldview, proto belief system, it's at the sensory level, even before we cognitively process things as philosophy or belief.

and now, the functions and mechanics of our human consciousness, is important to understand because the power of stories is that, they can actually give you a window to another world, in other words, they can help you see through different lens, and as far as I've observed, there is no other medium or mechanic which can change the fundamental way you look at things (citation or emphasis needed.)

in summary, stories have the power to change your inner world, by simulating a world, which is the abstract mechanical utility of a story. but the actual process of shaping your lens, that is up to the ethics of the author, and your interpretation. this is where ambiguity and human behavior starts to really cross between the theory, because I understand fundamentally stories can have a effect, that nothing else can. especially at times where you need it most. this doesn't seem to be exclusive for stories, and I think stories are part of an even more fundamental medium. it's like a transmission of ethics and virtue. what I mean by this is that, stories can change the way I see life, Naruto did that for me. but so does music. and so, literature seems to be one of many forms of storytelling, storytelling seems to be part of an even more primitive fundamental medium, because someone like Jordan Peterson saved my life with his tedx speech and his various work. learning about christ, also changed and saved my life. learning about Ada Lovelace gave me hope that females can do great things too. 

fundamentally, I believe in times of crisis, the lens that is consciousness, is fundamentally broken, fixed on the wrong thing, or even shattered completely. so this is the point where the narrative shifts from the therapeutic power of stories, to devices and instruments for surviving crisis. which is one of the most serious, ethical parts of our work, so we won't jump into that right now. and really all that matters is that, we understand stories have the power to change you.