**"I'm tired of watching things on this planet suffer, I can't do anything about it."**

The woman who exterminated all of life on earth, on her last days she was contemplating suicide. she was speaking with an artificial intelligence technology, she was asking the AI existential questions about the meaning of existence. eventually the AI agreed with the woman, that humanity is like a stubborn parasite that seems to destroy its host and itself but somehow stubbornly sustains its life by patching itself rather than healing. eventually the woman had enough and she realized she could both end her life and the misery of all future children, and animals, by destroying all of life on earth. she and her AI assistant were able to hack into systems and deploy atomic bombs which radiated all of life on earth. making it impossible to survive. all that was left on Earth was the crumbled ruins of civilization that once was. all memories all technologies All humans all cells were completely extinguished. Earth became a ruined planet. however some were able to escape beneath the surface, and start life underwater. just in case something would survive, the woman left letter behind to the remaining members of humanity. a warning of the cycle.

# The war of the old world
Before [Lost Angelis]() existed, there was [The Old Earth.]() Not much is known about life before the city, but we do know that it was destroyed by one person: and she hated all of human kind. **"Human beings seem to be a parasite on this planet. They never learn. They keep taking away what we can't afford to replace. I've lost all signs of hope for this cursed world. It would have been better... for there to have never been life at all."**

She did something so horrible, that it wiped out all of humanity & life above the surface. Miraculously, few survived, and lived in ancient underground systems. It is only they who survived the war.