we are not precisely limited by what we can do, but how much we are capable of within a human lifetime. it is important to measure the existential scale; but avoid treating human life as a single timeline. rather, this linear axes serves as a necessary constraint, a structure. without a timeline, there is no music, no story, without structure, there is no navigation. without navigation, we don't know how to properly allocate our energy according to Time. this is why the timeline model is a foundational principle in the factor of i. 

it is also incredibly time-consuming to work in today's information age. we are no longer focusing on a single task, with the growth of technology, a single task contains subsets that are not foreseeable; these are technological artifact side effects. whether it is maintaining a management system, or navigating a complex environment, the general complexity of Technology demands more cognitive resources than we can sustainably predict or model for. given this issue, we are constrained to focus for a sustained range of time, within a domain. just as our ancestors did with analog equipment, you must learn to navigate the technology Information age as the way it is physically modeled, in virtual cyberspace...

it may even feel like we are hoarding information, accumulating meaning...
... it is common for some to say, if everything is meaningful, nothing is meaningful, while this is arbitrarily true, from the phenomenological lived experience, when everything feels meaningful, Everything feels overwhelmingly meaningful. this may be related to how the neurodivergent mind associates importance, instead of a hierarchial priority list, we navigate and graph system of meaning, closer to native resolution. if hierarchy determines priority, connection determines meaning. a list of hierarchical items is essentially meaningless, but a paragraph of those same ideas, expresses connection, a graph, meaning. this is why models and data structures for information are so important especially in this area...