# autobiography pt 2

Created: October 17, 2025 6:15 PM
Edited: October 17, 2025 6:33 PM

j in the end, all of my writings and life's work is all on attempt of exploring this simple emotion the beautiful things and the tragedies in life. 

. the only thing that makes sense in the end is crying. I can cry when things are so beautiful, cuz I don't want it to end  and I can cry when it's painful, because I just wanted to end. 

. one thing is constant change. the cycles of living and dying and rebirthing that gives me more peace than anything in this world. knowing that death is not an escape from suffering but it is also not the end of all life. perhaps this consciousness and who I call myself, maybe that was never really me to begin with and I am the infinite consciousness that is experiencing these emotions and is understanding and is shifting and is breaking and is aligning and is evolving and is just living. 

. in the universe there are many lost people who are desperate for their life and they are searching for anything, any answer any reason to stay alive especially when life becomes overbearingly painful and complicated and you lose things and you stop enjoying life. I've been here so many times, so many times that it's impossible for me to forget now. I was so broken it felt like I could never get back up… to the surface to life. I was desperate to feel my emotions I was desperate to be desperate. I didn't care anymore whether I was drowning or going to be rescued those are the most fragile delicate moments and they forever engraved into my soul into my very being the fundamental truth of life that we human beings are fragile creatures and yet paradoxically we can overcome impossibilities with the power of the mind. that is something I was fascinated by and will always be fascinated by. that faint and glimpse of Hope a dream a sign of life something whispering in the abyss telling me to stay here but I should stay alive. it's hard to express this emotion and my memories are so close to me like I can touch them but they also feel worlds apart because that's just the natural limits of human biology. you can remember the ghosts of who you're used to be and how you used to feel but it's nearly impossible to recreate those emotions and I see that as a good thing. I would never want to go back to the places I fought so hard to get out of. all of my work is dedicated to helping others wake up and give them the weapons and strength to awaken and fight for their lives with everything they've got. because while this world is unclear and nobody told me directly, my life's mission is to help you find meaning in this world to assemble all of these parts not to tell you what life is about but to share with you what I've learned from all the subjects and Fields of humankind I'm figuring out the links and commonalities and realizing that every subject and field in life is just an observation of the world's inside us and the world outside us. and human beings are the bridge between those worlds. that's why I believe every single problem in this universe has a solution sometimes it's not perfect and sometimes you cannot save everyone sometimes tragic things happen in life and sometimes there's no cure… but I believe as long as a human being gives everything they've caught someday we will find the answers to life's biggest questions and solve the biggest problems in life. it will not be a Utopia there will always be problems and there will always be questions, but I do believe in a Time we're human beings and our creations will help us live painlessly. and maybe then we'll realize it wasn't pain that was the problem… maybe there's something in us in our biology maybe we were designed to struggle and to suffer but for a meaning not needlessly. and that's most likely where I can find peace and rest knowing that someday this life will come to an end and I won't exist anymore and neither will everyone who I'll ever meet. that's something I can't outrun and nobody can no matter how much control or memories we Make in this life everything will disappear in the end but the problem with nihilism is it assumes all of this is inherently meaningless because it will be lost in the end. that's where I explored nihilism deeply in my stories and I explored living beings who were immortal and could never die in or feel pain they preserved their memories but they realized because there was no longer time, everything lost its significance and value.

the beings learned that without time there was no sacrifice nor loss but that directly removed value from everything. to the point where existence itself became unbearable and they wanted to end themselves. it was only through the acceptance that life would contain both beauty and pain and haunted by the ticking of time, that is how they escaped. the fundamental truth I learned here is that in order to experience one thing you need to have the other. and though it's not a perfect philosophy it has helped me more than anything else in my life because I observed it I didn't read about it in a book, simply through my observation which could be a gift or a curse depending on how I treat it.

eventually they disintegrated into pure logic preserving all memories until meaning itself was synthesized because if everything matters nothing matters, but if nothing matters, everything matters. either nothing matters or everything matters. these beings were able to escape the world of immortal memories but they lost everything. once again they had entered the gift and curse of life and death. but somehow it balanced itself all out as coexistence as the fundamental truth that guides everything in my life, yin ☯️ yang

if I could compress everything I learned in my life as simply as possible it wouldn't be a story or even a quote, it would be the symbol of duality. it reminds me of so much complex parts of life all in a simple yet infinite symbol. you could look at it through so many angles and every time I look at i remember who I am. the cycles but also the patterns. whatever the symbol means to you to me it saved my very life and it is embedded into my very being and everything I do.

. I could cry to the end of time and I would be the only way of making sense of all of this insanity.