# Complexity in life

Created: October 18, 2025 7:30 PM
Edited: October 18, 2025 7:40 PM

i love learning about computers, science and complicated things that human beings do. Because this stuff and reverse-engineering impossible complex systems to tract back to where it all started, which is almost always a humble beginning with minimal things, and a core idea that drives the entire process forward. like a freight train. inherently, complexity is the price to pay for progress, because that's the natural law of space/time, the more something expands, the most complex it has to be in order to be useful. but that means you can reverse-engineer it when it becomes overwhelmingly incomprehensible, and trace the networks of complexity back to their ancestral beginnings... not to graph or chart relationships of changes, but to understand practically: where it began, and how it got to where it is today.

this concept/mental model is something i call 'the tracer theory" (idk of a better name lol, plus it's one of my favorite characters from ovrwatch!) and it helps me to zoom-out when the map becomes too complex. but also, this is part of a bigger theory called... ummm... the zoom in/out macro/micro theory, which is all about the duality of zooming into details or outside. sometimes, the big picture helps you orient yourself, but it can  also become overwhelming to see everything at once. That's when I zoom back into the details, and "trace" my way around the map. I also learned perhaps the most important theory of all, "the compass." without a northstar or guiding compass, you have no idea where you're going. even if you have an entire map of your idea or plan, you don't know if moving forward is in the desired direction, that's where a compass reminds you where you actually want to go.

all of this is very theoretical in nature because it's meant to be a portable mental model that you can conceptualize easily, and then unfold itself to adapt to your unique problems in life.

whenever i am overwhelmed by complexity in life, i've made it a habit to remember these portable mental models and they have surely saved my life in many situations (like the Heimlich maneuver, but for your psychology.) and I can remember that everything complex always started somewhere simple. That’s what I do with my own life when things are too overwhelming. I don’t continue to charge forward. I stop and pause, and let everything drop. It’s not a luxury, it’s necessity and survival. Some of us are capable of amazing things but we also need an amazing environment, that adapts to us, in order for us to live at our best.