# Compass

Created: October 4, 2025 1:48 AM
Edited: October 7, 2025 12:00 PM

If i were to die, what would be the things I regret the most if I didn't do them?

1. Listening to others before myself
2. Never having completed my transition
3. Nrver having helped someone like my past self, to not commit suicide, thanks to my life's work & me being an inspiration.
4. Never having amounted to my dreams
5. Never having become famous (in a good way like Jordan Peterson)
6. Never having achieved my life's work & dreams
7. Never having the satisfaction of building my own life
8. Not loving myself enough
9. Not showing my body enough love
10. Letting my penis/sexual impulses confuse who I am as a human being
11. Letting emotionlessness & exhaustion stop me from chasing things that would help me heal & feel again.

I want to reel pretty. It's been months since I went outside. I feel so much stress prepared my makeup & then constantly fixing my clothing outside because im afraid someone will get xlose to me & think im a femine boy dressed as a girl. That hurts my heart so much. All my life I felt feminine & sensitive &vU couldn't explain why. Then i discovered transitioning & it saved my life. But I had to face the real troubles within me. I don't care why other people transition: I know why I transitioned because I love life & im going to give myself the best life I can.

Thats the thing, IDK how to do that. Loving myself & treating myself as my own best friend & mother is the only thing keeping me alive. Music + games + stories+ youniverse keeps me fueled throughout the day but then I get lost in the noise & end up focusing on tasks rather than my big picture life dream: to give myself the best life I can.

I end up feeling hopeless after trial & error. it feels like I'm stuck in a loop in a cycle it feels like I'm watching a barber pole it feels like things are moving forward but in reality we're just looping and staying stuck where we started. the problem isn't coding the problem isn't my systems the problem is at its source, that I become too immersed in the details and I forgot the big picture in the compass the simple but most powerful seed in my life, to give myself the best life I can.

The reason I won't give up is because life can be too cruel for me to give into the temptation of suicide/complete despair. are there reasons to feel hopeless? are there reasons to lose all hope? absolutely. but the reason I won't lose myself is because I love my child self. I will protect her… this world makes no sense to me and I hate being around people but I won't be a recluse. I'm a human being and I was designed to live. and that's my big picture mission to give myself the best life I can.

however I feel hopeless I don't even know if I can move to it required or how I can make money to sustain myself or if I'll even be able to buy myself all the basic care I need, or if I'll even get therapy, all of that just pushes me down a whole where the only thing I want to do is sleep forever. but then I realize wait a minute I'm getting drowned in the noise. my thoughts are creating noise, in reality my life is beautiful and I have a lovely body. the reason I'm so insecure is because I wish I had something that I don't. I wish I had the perfect body and I could be confident enough to go outside and be myself freely. I was up to remember I've seen terrifying things online so some part of me is spiritually dead. I pray to God and ask for guidance but I only feel even more alone. instead of losing hope I always come back to my compass when the whole world is nothing but noise and nothing makes sense and I don't know where to go, I always come back to my compass give myself the best life I can. ❤️

everything. every single fucking thing is just a method it's just a little step is a little detail I already have the most important part in my compass my heart. and most important thing I'll ever have in my life is my life itself ❤️

I used to masturbate to girls because my body parts aren't what I wanted to have been born with. But I am noty penis. I am not testosterone.