# Dysphoria personified

Created: October 9, 2025 4:24 PM
Edited: October 9, 2025 4:34 PM

. dysphoria is like a bully that beats you up the more you listen to it. the more or where you are of your body and who you are and inside, the more dysphoria has ways of hurting you it's like a bully that knows exactly what hurts you but it doesn't beat you up until your dad, it beats you up just enough to keep you alive until one day you feel like you should end it yourself. dysphoria never has the power to end you, that was always in your hands. when you look at yourself and you hate yourself remember it's not your fault… dysphoria is relentless and so you must be as well you must match its hatred as love… the only revenge that made the suffering worthwhile is to live a life so beautifully fierce that dysphoria becomes a tiny dehydrated demon, a stepping stone in your story. where it once had its claws around your neck and stuck to the life away from your eyes, everyday you have an opportunity to change and write something new into the fabric of your story. but passion is not enough against dysphoria, it is a legion of a voices of bullies that come and haunt you and torment you from the inside out it tells you how you're never going to be good enough and how you'll never be worth of being loved. it tells you it would have been better to have never been born and then to struggle this much. dysphoria tells you it's too much work to try and recover your life. 

that is why the only weapon and the only weakness against dysphoria, is facing it head on. a bully feeds on someone who doesn't care about their life but as soon as you start Awakening you realize it lives within you you must have something within you that can overcome it.

if you have the power to end your life, do you not have the power to change your life? 

. how do you defeat and destroy dysphoria? dysphoria is like a maiden, she vomits little thoughts and demons at whisper thoughts in your head they capture fragments of your soul they take away pieces of you until life feels meaningless and pointless. until every inch of your body feels unlivable. but remember the only thing that keeps dysphoria alive is meaninglessness. if you have a reason to suffer, if you have a North star a plan a reason to exist and fight, dysphoria immediately feels frightened. meaning, love those are the only weapons against dysphoria and it is one of the most terrifying dark forces of the abyss. someone who is not loved, stands no chance against the legion. but even just a single cell that wants to carry on and wants to experience a life worth living and to heal, that is the power of light to extinguish even the most consuming hatred. 

. that is why in the universe personas who have battled with dysphoria… they will tell you that strength alone can never be enough. fixing their body can never be enough. it is finding love and finding a reason to endure the suffering, that is the only blade that will not break against the fury of the abyss.