# exploring death

Created: October 19, 2025 4:37 PM
Edited: October 19, 2025 5:14 PM

. sometimes when I fall asleep I wake up a lot and I'm thinking about the existential dread of knowing you will die someday. 

. it's paradoxical because when I'm asleep that's when I do my best thinking and that's when I feel at my deepest that's when I feel at my most alive. in my dreams. anyone who's ever had death anxiety knows how traumatizing and horrific it feels. to be haunted by the reminder that someday you will die you will stop existing you won't be able to listen to your favorite music or spend time with the people you love all the things you wanted to do in your life if you didn't do it in your life it's over. that's one of the biggest regrets people have in their deathbed. those people are a direct insight for me to figure out what really matters most in human life and what I'm supposed to focus on. 

. there are a million different things that I could do every single day thousands of ideas and projects and desires and wishes and dreams and hopes and so many different paths I could take, and if I had all the time in the world I would probably explore each and every one of them but it's only because of death that I understand what matters most, focusing on the work that will have the most positive impact on my life and others. 

. so in that sense death not only gives me meaning but it also Burns away all the parts of me that don't belong and it only leaves what is true and most important. 

. still it is unclear how I'm supposed to spend the rest of my life knowing that someday I'll die and even though I know what matters most of my life what am I supposed to do about that? it's not like death makes time any slower, in fact the more aware you are of time and the faster it seems to go. paradoxically if you're never paid attention to time it also seems to go turbo. only when I spend a meaningful existence a life filled with memories and positive things I did for myself and others, only that is when time slows down and I feel that my most alive. I love that I wish I could spend all the rest of my days doing the most important work and helping myself and others and making memories and living a fulfilling existence. that's exactly what drives away nihilism and depression because our bodies generate incredible sensations and emotions that are impossible to explain they are just so beautiful and it's just like love, it's enough you don't need to keep questioning when you're loved. there's no logic or analysis, because it's enough. 

. that's what makes love so addictive you want to spend all your time with that person but you could also love your work or your stories or your characters or music. those are some of the things that saved my life. until I ask myself what will happen to my memories and my emotions when I'm no longer here? 

. I explored that idea in my data loss theory. essentially even if you lost 99% of your original data as long as the error correction remains, that little 1% can rebuild the entirety of the 99%. this idea came from information theory and how QR codes correct damages on the surface by using clever parts of its design. that's what I believe my consciousness is, I'm not the memories or the songs those are the things that helped me stay alive when I was at my most broken, but my ability to feel even when I had no emotion, that's the deepest part of me that's the real me. that is the one percent that matters even when everything else is taken away from me. 

. even with all of this that's simple emotion is still frightening to me I wake up and I imagine how awful that will be… to lose the people you love to lose the ability to walk and to just exist there is not only haunting but paralyzing. some part of your wishes you had never been born to deal with all of this because if even the beautiful things that make life worth living will be taken away someday, why did you bring me here? 

. and that's where I realize I found my answer all along. you did it for love. you love life you love being alive you love that you're not just a static isolated human being but the things you do that you existed that you were here, you changed life in ways that are invisible and in ways that you could never understand. even if you never leave behind a strong legacy of who you were, you existed. you changed things that you could never see. even our legacies and history will someday be forgotten as if it never happened. that's where nihilism can become scary because it is assumes that because things will die someday there is no inherent meaning or purpose in living. 

. but preservation is not what gives a human being meaning in their life. if nothing were to ever die, and everything were perfectly balanced without the necessity of death, What would life look like? if nobody ever died if we never lost our memories or the people we love, would that be a Utopia or a hell? it's difficult to explore this because it's almost entirely theoretical. none of us know what a world like that would be like we could only imagine, and since I'm a Sci-Fi girly who loves cyberpunk, I am especially experienced in this area! I love imagining alternative technologies and scientific possibilities of the wildest dreams I have. it could very well be possible that someday we could preserve human consciousness virtually so that we would never die. but then the original problem is here again… if we never died would that make things better or worse? if we never aged if life was a perfect balance like a perpetual machine, if it could be possible would it really fix my fear of death? 

. I realize during the darkest depression of my life it's not death that I really fear, it was the unlived life that I feared and that's what shocked me back to life that's what saved my life but a little thought. after watching a little clip of Jordan Peterson speaking about something similar, I was able to understand why I'm here. and yet as much as I wish this would give me extreme motivation to live the most beautiful life, instead it does the opposite in a paralyzes me and I wish I could do something about it… perhaps I don't have to be haunted by death, perhaps in this extremely messy paper, I can finally piece together what the meaning of my life really is. and perhaps it can help someone out there with those struggling with death. 

. I'm going to think about it this way, it's corny but it works. if a video game lasted forever, if a song lasted forever, if a movie lasted forever and it never ended, I think at least you would want to pause. if the movie you were watching for a thousands of hours, we would be overwhelmed by the enormous amount of scenes and stories and characters. we would need time to process and remember what we just saw otherwise we would become blind and the numb to the movie. that's where I think the significance of life comes, the fact that nothing lasts forever. maybe everything is balanced even if it's not perfect. and perhaps because nothing lasts forever maybe death itself doesn't last forever and it's part of a big recycle. even if my consciousness is never going to come back again, that's what made my life significant, but also why would I want to come back after having lived everything I needed to live? of course that's theoretical I have no idea what I need to live I only know what I want to live and even then I don't know how to get there. recently that's all I'm thinking about in my days, how to heal from trauma how to get back my life and how to share my work with others.

. I explored this in my stories because if you were immortal and your memories lasted forever and all the people you loved lived forever there would be no urgency… maybe the first couple thousand of years of spending time with people you love that would be beautiful but after a while… I believe we would have forget our memories and once in a lifetime celebrations like birthday parties and anniversaries, they would lose their significance. death is inherently connected to time and our time is limited by the energy our body has and our health. that's why in my hierarchy of life health is the most important thing.

I don't know if any philosophy or religion can help me understand the tragedy of this consciousness someday never existing and that will be forever. but the same is true before I was born I didn't exist and then suddenly this point in time is what matters most. no I wish that filled me with vitality and energy to live the best life I can to treat every day like it's sacred and to not take my time for granted, but it's almost as if I'm paralyzed by the weight of dread. 

. most of the heavy weight of death for me comes from the fact that someday it will all be lost forever. and even if you did experience a beautiful meaningful existence, what is in the end of the consciousness dies forever? that's probably the real problem here I'm assuming that I know what will happen to my consciousness after death, and that's a place that nobody's been. nobody knows what happens after death and scientifically we're only limited by what our instruments let us observe and what we can understand in human terms. death is most likely one of those things will never understand and it's so tragic to me because I really don't want my consciousness to stop existing. I wish I could exist forever even though I know in a way my life's work keeps part of me alive even after my body stops functioning. 

but that's not what I'm saying, I'm saying you what will happen to my consciousness if it stops existing? what would happen if it continues existing? if everything in the universe is energy then according to physics energy never dies it only shifts form. in Hinduism there is the belief of reincarnation that we are stuck in the cycle of Life death and rebirth, samsara. and the ultimate purpose of human life is to break free from the samsara and achieve moksha… to go back to the infinite consciousness where we came from, the Brahman.

. that belief has given me so much peace and I can't believe that this ancient religion already solved the problem that I was painstakingly trying to understand on my own. now I'm not going to go out searching the world for the perfect belief or religion, I believe that this individual life doesn't have a guide book or a written text, most of the things that have saved my life I've learned on my own or at least I chose to keep my heart open to them. 

. and still enhance me I wake up in the middle of the night and I imagine people I love songs I'll never get to listen to, myself how could I make peace knowing that the end of this life is unknown? how could I continue living my life the same way? I think a death changes you forever it's probably the only thing that can really awaken consciousness in human beings. it's simultaneously the most tragic but most liberating part of life. when someone you love dies a part of you dies with them that part never comes back but you still remember them. death could be liberating to me because nobody knows what happens after death. perhaps we're punished for all the mistakes we made or maybe we're throwing back into existence until we get it right, there's so many more possibilities of a life after death than just mere consciousness being extinguished. that doesn't make sense, the energy and my consciousness is immense and I believe after death it'll be shifted and that's what gives me hope that the mystery of death reveals the importance of my life today and not being afraid to die, not being afraid to lose the things and the people I love, it is in fact death that gives everything it's meaning. 

. but there's also something strange about us human beings, it's not that we want a Utopia without death or suffering but rather we want something we are not completely in control of but something we can live through. I can imagine it this way if I was designing a robot with human consciousness I wouldn't want it to be perfect I would want it to act on its own but I would trust the robot but it would value my life rather than zapping me away.