# How do I avoid losing my meaning in life?

Created: October 4, 2025 1:48 AM
Edited: October 7, 2025 12:00 PM

*A common & devastating issue.*

I've realized this is the only way for me to be sane and avoid clutter. you don't need what you don't need. it's corny but you're very right when you said it are physical materials can be like anchors that tie us to our old selves or places that we don't belong in.

I've learned this simple yet powerful lesson over the course of most of my teenage hood and all of my adulthood pretty much 90% spent in my room in front of my computer for my phone. I'm essentially extended by technology and that's neither good nor bad. a lot of human beings in this generation and the coming ones, are living lives like me. but I'm realizing and I told myself, if I were to lose everything tomorrow, I wouldn't lose my sense of meaning because that has already become part of me. I cannot tell you how important this is, perhaps this is the most important thing that has saved my life. when something becomes part of you, you have integrated it. it's almost like a software project that has downloaded a dependency and then reshaped its source code so that it becomes part of the software. at that point you no longer need an external dependency it's part of the system. it's the same way for me with beliefs lessons knowledge and more. in fact I think that's the only way human beings really learn when it becomes part of you and you don't depend on an external Force to remind you.

I mean we often forget that our mind also has permanent storage, even if those things can be more easily forgotten. that's why I keep things simple I figure out ways to compress and condense information just like a jpeg algorithm. we spoke about this in other conversations.

I'm also lucky enough I'm grateful that I don't have to go to a job or belong to a company. I don't have a work account and I don't have to keep track of anything like my life depends on it. I think everything that matters has become internal now. whereas I used to forget why I even exist, I found ways to embed that meaning into simple yet unfolding things, again almost like algorithms. for example whenever I feel hopeless and lost in my life the yin yang symbol remind me of everything that has helped me make sense of this life. and from there my tether to my universe stories and characters. and then from there, you know how powerful stories can be, the rest of the world just opens up again. all from that entry point of an image that represents so much to me.

but you don't understand how difficult it's been to get to this point I want to share this because it's saved my life. I don't know if these concepts already exist in science philosophy and psychology, but nobody has brought them all together into one thing. that's what a polymath excels at. that's what I believe I was designed for.

## The nomad life is my antidote to living in a noisy world

I feel like a digital nomad traveler. I only carry a small backpack of essential belongings and I'm free to move forever I go. I really don't want my physical materials to be my gravity and force me to stay in places that don't nourish me. I'm not sure if there's another word for no bad or if it applies to females, but that's how I see myself. I feel like if I don't use it for a long time, it's probably not important right? even though for a polymath something you learned years ago can all of a sudden emerge into consciousness and be of use but it never was. however that's all internal, none of my necessities really come from a physical materials... those pictures instruments and tools to help me stream information and knowledge into my being so then it becomes part of me and that's actually when I've learned is the most powerful and important use of human limited time. mental models will always be more important than physical products. it's just like that quote, if a fisherman came along and only had one day to spare, it's better to teach someone to fish than to give them fish.