# Is suffering pointless?

Created: October 4, 2025 1:48 AM
Edited: October 7, 2025 12:00 PM

I was watching pursuit of happiness, and I was thinking about Chris Gardner and how much he suffered in his life not only is a human being but as a father who had to take care of his son. the movie is inspired by a real person, who wins the real things. and I think to myself, I know that there's people out there who have suffered even more than Chris gardner, and they didn't get a movie. and then as myself well if some people suffer so much, and they're invisible to us, privileged people on the other side, order something better for them, or perhaps for all of us to have never existed? and that's when I remind myself that this is exactly what human beings were designed for. whether I believe in a designer or deterministic evolution, the truth remains, that we human being feel most alive for me live right at the edge of proximal development, between logical order and impossible chaos.

whereas my younger, teenage self was pure anger and filled with rebellion, she didn't experience enough suffering in order to be completely broken, she questioned everything but she didn't experience it herself. after witnessing the most terrifying suffering that we human beings have done to each other, after all the horrific things I've seen, I've permanently damaged my psyche, in a way I don't think I will ever fully recover from. but what's more important is that, is that I've found the deepest appreciation and respect for life. for all the parents, the mothers and fathers who love their children so much, they overwork themselves, often to death, just so their children can have a chance at life. and I ask myself, as beautiful of a story as that may be, why is fighting for your child better than not having had a child to begin with? that's when you realize, you don't quite have an answer to your own death. those who have been frightened by death, understand what I'm talking about. the fact that someday we'll just disappear forever and we're not coming back, and all the beautiful things, they will all die with us. the memories the dreams, everything that made life worth living, that's going to die with us along with all of the terrible thing good riddance to those, but what a crime it is that we are burdened with the impossible vision of consciousness, that perhaps someday it will all disappear. this brings me to another idea, the nature of death in humans. we human beings are more than physical creatures, our consciousness is mysterious and for pretty much all of human history, we've been trying to figure out what are emotions and what is the human experience, and are we different from other creatures on this planet, and why are we here and how did we get here and why is something better than nothing. if your life was pure suffering, then death is the only relief. if your life was pure beauty, then death is the most horrific ending. but if your life was on the edge, if you lived in meaningful life where you suffered but you loved deeply, then death is both the relief and their horrific ending. and the only answer is for your life to continue in someone else. now I understand the purpose of having children. I used to think, look at all the work it takes to give a child life. but really, there is no other answer to the problem of death. life itself can be cruel enough to some of us, but death? regardless of how we were treated in this life, we will all meet the same ending. whatever happens after death, one thing is for sure nobody knows. I think whether or not there is an afterlife or it's complete nothingness, what matters more is what you do in this life right now, and how you choose to share your life with someone else, before your flame dies out.

we human beings, if we don't have a reason to exist, or anything to fight for, we actually begin to decay psychologically and then physically. it's like there's something, somewhere inside us that is desperate for experiencing life, and comfort there is no life.