# Loneliness

Created: October 7, 2025 11:59 AM
Edited: October 7, 2025 1:01 PM

**the loneliness of perception and how my universe saved my life**

I feel like I am becoming aware of the real fundamental issues in life but I'm also learning to live with the noise in my mind and to master the things that really matter in life. the things that really matter to me. life is incredibly complicated you could say life is infinity and death is the opposite of infinity. people like me human beings who are sensitive to life, we can feel like we are trapped in our own world, our own perceptions. that is one of the most hidden parts of life, nature gave us empathy and intuition, so that we could at least imagine what other human beings feel, but we can never know for certain what the perception of another human being is like. we can only trust that we are following the truth and the good of life. the universe unfolds, you know I realize I'm not truly trapped in my own perception, it's not like I'm looking at life from glass walls, I'm actually on both sides. I want my universe to be a place where people like me can feel connected even when we are completely isolated in our own world and we forget everything that matters to us, I created a world just for that we have this. and the opposite of the abyss is a world where life on a folds and you are living to your highest purpose. the university is part of that world euthanasia is a resting world to remind us of the fragility yet gloriousness of life.

whenever I feel trapped in my own world, like I'm plowing my way through the walls of my perception, and I just wish I could understand what I feel… I come back to my inner world, even if my outer world has no idea who I am on the inside, and I am just so desperate to align both, I realize one world is in my control and the other isn't. the bridge between my inner world and the outer world is action. nature did not give us wireless emotions, we have to be wired and tethered to something in order to feel. that's exactly what the universe is to me.