# philosophy 3

Created: October 16, 2025 5:05 PM
Edited: October 16, 2025 5:06 PM

here's another thing that saved my life psychological suffering especially when paired with physical suffering can be so unbearable that I became resentful of even being brought into existence in the first place I felt so empty and so numb and I saw my past self and how other people were just naively enjoying their lives while I was staring at a map of all of humankind and believing that existence would have been better if it would have never came to be because suffering is such a terrible torment and when you have to endure it on your own and when the reason is unclear, it is almost like a computer program that is being forced data without any instructions on how to handle it. it would immediately overload and become numb and shut down to protect itself and that's exactly what we human beings do especially at our most psychologically wounded. healing is not beautiful it is not linear therapists are plentiful but a savior is one in a billion. someone who is willing to descend down to the depths that you have reached and rescue you from the dangers of your own in our world, someone like that not only risks their life but they're very soul because when you have seen the darkest parts of your own psyche you come back up to life and nothing looks the same anymore. this is what happened to me I started feeling nothing inside and I just wanted to stop existing because it felt like every poor in my body was piercing with needles in a metaphorical sense but also physically my body was deteriorating and problems in my life started stacking up like malware on a computer to the point of complete system exhaustion.
and now comes the second part of my philosophy which is existential gratitude I mean that doesn't even encapsulate what I feel it's more like an explosion of innocence and rebirth. I mean when you've survived trying to end your life it's almost as if all of the overwhelming issues and problems died without explosion inside you and now everything has rebirth and some part of me can still feel resentful that this is a cycle I'll most likely go through for the rest of my existence... but even if I don't understand why I'm going through this, I'm learning to dedicate my life to anchors of meaning so I don't analyze and The logical mind doesn't take over but rather I have a responsibility to perform an orchestration between my biology and psychology understanding how my body operates and cycles and understanding that at the worst pits of depression meaning and light itself cannot shine through the bottom of the abyss. and all you have to do at that point is just survive. and that's the most difficult thing because when you're drowning all it takes is a couple of steps and you could find a hydrothermal vent or a deep dark cave and you know if you enter those places it's over forever but if you just survive I believe the human psyche has recovery tools like a computer, or a universe rebirthing, nothing will be destroyed but everything will die not in the physical sense but psychologically. I've experienced that death many times in my life and something I've learned in software engineering is problems are part of the passion of code... like a stoic would use negative imagination to prepare oneself to be faced with an unexpected setback, I know that in my future these deaths and rebirths will occur again and again and I could do everything perfectly and I could prepare myself and I could study real hard and build tools and scaffolding and shield myself and pray and be perfect, but no matter what you do what really matters most is that you remember at your most vulnerable moment all you have to do is survive it a whisper from your past self and your future self that even if you don't understand in this moment you must survive. a story does not make sense when you close it in the middle you must continue and read until the resolution and that's what depression robs you of it overrides the book until every page is the same thing even your very own memories are removed from you temporarily you stop feeling happy you don't even care about your hygiene or your body or your relationships music that once sparked life to the cells of your body are now just distant echoes of noise. everything almost descends into a logical world where you can feel the sensations but you cannot feel the emotion. it's cruel it's beyond description it's terrifying it's mortifying it is the equivalent of drowning underwater and your desperation to come up to the surface for air has turned into desperation for this pain to just end. I believe in those moments there is no perfect philosophy or quotes or image it is just static... pure biological logic. pure sensation and no emotion no beauty only pain and suffering. but I also believe it doesn't last longer than it needs to could you imagine every living moment of your life being hit by depression? the very fact that nature doesn't allow us to suffer in excess beyond what we can tolerate reminds me of a verse from the Bible that says that God will never put his children through more than they can bear. it's not perfect because I've seen terrible things but it can definitely prepare you for when your life falls apart and you're drowning. there can be so much more descriptive metaphors  to the problem of depression and especially when you are on the verge of ending your own life and you are presented with the opportunity to do so. to me depression and dpdr and mental illness for that, are not just biological problems but they are deeply existential and philosophical for me because I see myself between both worlds I want to understand why.
okay I went on a rampant event there LMAO but essentially the second part of my philosophy was the explosion of gratitude essentially after the horrifying period of suffering I always enter what I like to call the early morning of spring it's almost like Christmas you cannot recreate that feeling and you can't celebrate Christmas when it's gone but for those little short moments where everything feels alive and beautiful and vivid it's like the universe is being brought back to life the system is booting up suffering can feel like you are trapped for decades of your life and it is stolen from you and to make it worse the fear of missing out on life punishes you for feeling this way it's like it's your fault that you're stuck here but that's just the monkey mind speaking. if you can remember that you can and probably will survive this, once you feel that appreciation and gratitude for life that's not only a reward, that is the past you and the future you traveling through time and breaking through the walls of psychology and biology it is beyond description and its beauty and there is nothing more existentially painful to me than being brought back to life and experiencing life after a period of insufferable mental illness and anguish.
and it's recursive it's a cycle it continues that's what I want My philosophy to be and I wanted to be just a little book collecting dust on a bookshelf of a academic library, I need this to be shared and echoed beyond my very life. that's essentially what I'm dedicating my life to that's what my universe projects are all for my website my computer I even designed my own identity and my very own persona out of this belief and My philosophy is not my core life but it is another reflection of what I care about most.
and it's bittersweet at its best. because being brought back to life hurts way more than those moments when you're drowning and you can't hold your breath anymore. could you imagine if you were giving in the option of never being able to walk again, or being able to walk but you have to strengthen those broken bones in your ankle and that's going to hurt a whole hell of a lot more than anything you've ever been through but you know what's even more frightening never being able to walk again when you had the opportunity to face it. that's another part of my philosophy paid and suffering are like brick walls they aren't there to stop you they are there to test your will Your Love of Life it's not about that you want it badly enough it's about do you love it enough to go through anything for it?
love. that's the bridge between everything in my life. it's something I want to explore and understand more. also another part of my philosophy is asking the right questions and making the most of human consciousness. I thought about a little story even the youniverse name itself has meaning... not only is the name meant to embed and encapsulate the concept of you, a human being having a universe within you, but also the very fact that the universe began with the letter y just like it began with the question why?
during some of the most terrible depression of my life, I learned to ask the fundamental questions that I learned in school but they were never anchored in a way that I realized until recently nobody tells you that this stuff can save your life and it's the most important thing until you're choking on food and you need to know the Heimlich maneuver. that is also another concept, how the heck do we make this philosophy global and as simple to remember as the Heimlich maneuver that could literally save lives. that's more of the social project but that's how I'm structuring everything in it's final form... or should I say public form because this philosophy is kind of like linux. you'll be able to evolve it over time and it'll echo beyond my life. but the internal kernel the structure of Truth is so simple that it's like a little star in a universe like the big bang and it has within it everything it needs to be swallowed by the abyss and to survive countless seasons of depression and rebirth... not because it can... and not necessarily because it has a reason to, but because darkness exists so must light.