# philosophy summary

Created: October 20, 2025 6:27 PM
Edited: October 20, 2025 6:30 PM

as I sip this delicious coffee I made for myself I come back to life this is the point of My philosophy that I remember the most. what is real but we can feel what we can see. as a true scientist would I test my beliefs and apply them to my real life that's the only way to know if something is real or not. and so during the most painful moments that is when life is at its most real. sometimes the pain is so awful our brain seems to shut down and make it feel like life is just unreal but there's nothing more real than pain when you're in that moment you can't argue your way out of it you can't think your way out of it it's an awful awful place. perhaps the worst place. 

. and so if pain reminds me that I'm alive and that it's real that matters right? so what matters is real, and what's real matters.

I love how Clarissa pinkola said that our creative drive is like a cycle just like nature itself that's beautiful because my philosophy also reminds me that death itself is just part of a bigger cycle. in my stories there were people who suffered so much that they wanted to obliterate the entire universe so that no cycles could continue. and each in their own way somehow realized that existence is better than nonexistence. however another huge part of my philosophy is that we as human beings must focus on what is real rather than what is possible. I mentioned this to you a couple weeks ago but I created a world to encapsulate this headspace, consequently it's called theory space the dimension where all possibilities exist and I visualize it as mathematical vector raise and all possibilities almost like a computer calculating reality itself in order for the computer to handle that it would have to become reality itself and it'll have to end capsulate all of reality and also exist somewhere outside it in order to operate. but paradoxically because we are in theory space the computer is recursive and it exists inside of itself, stuck inside of theory space paradoxically reality or life doesn't exist inside theory space but it exists in its complete form as messy I'm painful as it can be that is also where beauty love and meaning exists and that's the only thing that can keep the cycles of Life continuing that is the only thing that can keep an organism from self-destructing when it has a mission when it has an instruction we human beings are like the bridge between the cosmic and the molecular because we have consciousness we created instruments to observe both planes of life but I realized we are a bridge not because we're supposed to look at both sides but because what matters most to a human being's life is what's real. that's what my philosophy is based on. childhood imagination is beautiful and restorative and incredibly healing but it can also be chaos especially as a young adult I've realized I have so many interests and you couldn't call me a software engineer or an illustrator or a storyteller or an author or a musician because I love all these things and I've found that fighting against my nature and trying to force myself in one direction, that is like fighting against my child and I would never do that because the world around me has done that plenty. I'm so grateful that I was able to have been born in an era where internet access is so open and essentially free of cost. you don't have to pay to view a website or to research or to read about a human being's inspiring story and they have all saved my life along with only incredible music that I've fed my child self and all the games that we've played over the years I'm honestly more of a cyborg than human because I spend most of my days with my computer it is an extension of me without my computer I actually don't know what to do. there's just too much chaos both in my own head and in the outside world it's unclear how I should spend my time effectively and what I should do with my life but like I said earlier that's the natural part of human evolution and because I'm cycling between being an adult with a highly precise field of view, and my child's self with the infinite lens of life and possibilities, I'm starting to realize it's a cycle but I can also build a bridge... that same bridge I spoke about of us human beings the consciousness being the bridge between those two polar opposites in life 🧬 
recently I listen to Jordan Peterson giving a tedx talk and he spoke about perhaps the most important topic that I'm focusing on right now which is all about what is real. I've listened to him so much over the years and he's read so many books so you can just hear within his speech he is so articulate and descriptive and highly precise with his language but he's also not an overbearing academic that uses words more than three syllables just to sound smart he speaks in your language but he also helps you crack the shell of your naivety so that you can see what real is I see this most apparent when he shares about human history and pathological thinking. the only way I can understand what we human beings are and more importantly what my life should be dedicated to, is seeing our existence as a story. and how are cycle of humanity fit inside the bigger cycle of life itself. 
if I ever want to explore these deep theoretical subjects I always go to stories because that's where home is for me that's where my heart is that's where my child self dreams and explores and that's where I understand and analyze and clarify. it's almost as a building a bridge between my childhood imagination and my adulthood precision is like a painter layering values and colors with their brush forming an object from a blank canvas, a void. the canvas starts out simultaneously has nothingness and everything all at once because essentially there are no limits to imagination but it can also become a void because there's just too much to work with infinite possibility again that's where theory space exists. only when the artist decides to move their hand and just put it on the canvas without analyzing or thinking about the final form and just trust the process that's what that means to trust the process to trust in your fine motor skills... to trust that your hands will translate what you see either as a reference image or in your imagination, and translate that into a painting that is essentially the precursor to a photograph. a moment in time frozen. perhaps one of the most incredible technologies human beings have ever created and it is not clear to me that there was a crucial necessity as compared to the DaVinci robot for example to perform dangerous surgeries that a human being could not be capable of. it seems to me that's I'm not wasting my life or I'm not wasting my time I'm in my early adult years and I'm trying to make sense of the senseless and the formless I'm essentially illustrating my own life and I'm tethering myself to to life intangible ways like listening to music being mindful of pleasure studying great figures in history and learning from human beings that can help guide my blind spots where I can't see them. 
LMAO I just realized I wrote paragraphs again! I seem to be writing so much trying to explore and explain my thoughts simultaneously because I didn't deep level I understand that the simple message is what matters most but at the same time it's like an illustrator or an author that is in the drafting process the more materials you have to work with the less void there is and although it could become noisy and cluttered to deal with all of these ideas you can form a constellation of logic and order that's exactly what an illustrator does that's what an author does with words intuitively that's what we human beings are we feel but we can also analyze just like a machine our intuition is the bridge. and I knew this intuitively all along but my analytical adult self is struggling to decipher all of the noise in my life and in the world around me especially dealing with existential questions about life and human purpose and learning to ask the right questions because I've seen what happens when human consciousness is not used properly and it is nonlinear as to how a human being should use their consciousness properly especially being a polymath like your girl!
that's how I look at everything yin yang is like my framework for everything sometimes there is a trinity... sometimes it's not a perfect polar duality but the deeper I dig the more I realize I already knew this all along I didn't have to go so deep into my own psyche my body know it all along..  and now with my childhood imagination I'm also understanding how to use my imagination for the things that I want in my life to solve problems in my life and to imagine what I want and who I could become and the possible steps I would take and the decisions to get there. and hopefully someday I can lucid dream because I remember people that saved my life like aphez twin and I believe Nikola Tesla they used their dreams as testing grounds for their work. my dreams get scary enough I don't know if being in control of my own dreams would be beneficial or not and that's honestly quite terrifying territory for me to explore deep in my own sub-consciousness. I think that's a place that even Carl Jung didn't explore probably because it's dangerous the kinds of things that you could imagine and my dreams seem to be directed by my subconscious it's almost like installing Arch Linux as compared to Linux from scratch... there's absolutely no direction and you have to do everything yourself and in a dream if my conscious thoughts are chaotic already I can't imagine how dangerous it would be to explore that lucidly. so I think for now there's a reason I haven't been able to have a dream that I'm in control of even though I've tried for many years ever since I was a teenager. 
so in summary what I'm saying is stories consciousness and meaning are a trinity. they all reinforce each other almost like nodes on a network. it can be used for positive or negative. that's the problem with logic it can be exploited because although logic is perfect order either one or zero, at a high level logic becomes intuition and autonomy and the noise and with that consciousness and the decision to follow your code or not I believe that's what we human beings are biologically. but again I don't care what we are or how we function what I care about more than anything is why we are. why is the most powerful question. that's what I believe and that's what guides my life. if I'm ever faced with odds I always ask myself why? why do I feel this way? that's where all the other questions come in e.g., what can I do about it, how can I get there where should I go from here when can I do it, etc .
that seems almost logical and orderly in its nature and that's because the yin yang describes polar opposites becoming each other because it's all a cycle and so at a high level my consciousness eventually becomes simplicity Elegance and that's where Harmony arises that's why music can be so beautiful when there are many layers that's why when people sing and harmonies it's almost angelic because something within us resonates in the same pitch as that Harmony that's why I believe music is so powerful and that's also why I believe movies are empty without a soundtrack, there is a duality even in movies visuals without sound is like life on mute. music without a story is like an untitled painting but when we have the story we derive meaning and then we can better use our consciousness because honestly the only things that matter are the things that are real the things that are real are what matters most and so the things that we can see are what matter most but sometimes the things we can't see are the most real so perhaps that's what matters most like when a person is depressed and they say I'm fine but on the inside they are decaying... and so that's where logic fails again too much order cannot adapt to possibility but too much imagination and freedom cannot be used in any meaningful way. and it's almost like our human intuition when the body and the consciousness are bridged together, that's what I believe human intuition is it's mysterious I don't always feel it but I know it's there and honestly if I ever had a speech that could extend Jordan Peterson's Ted talk it would be this. and I will give a TED talk someday many TED talks because that's why I chose to stay alive. 
this is who I am. not a biological anomaly but a conscious being who understands it came from a mysterious source but that source loves. and so do I. I love life and I have a deep respect for life and I'm humbled to my knees whenever I experience profound meaning because it is so overwhelming I cry. I've only experienced that a handful of times in my life and surprisingly I can remember those moments more than any of the suffering I've ever been through I don't like saying that pain is like a test because that belittles the severity of human suffering but I do like to consider pain as a natural parts of the human experience a side effect of all of the great things we are capable of just like fire it is incredibly useful and only fire can cook food to make it edible, but because fire is so useful there is a price to pay for that and the duality of it is that it can hurt and to destroy. 
that is what we human beings are we are like the blank canvas and the illustrator we can both be formed into any painting but we also have conscience to decide what our painting will be. I think there's a reason why the word painting contains the word pain .. is a pain ting a pain thing... most beautiful art isn't born out of suffering the most beautiful art to me takes tragedy in life and gives it meaning. it gives it meaning by becoming conscious of the tragedy and giving it a story and that's the Trinity again it keeps appearing everywhere even if I logically can't decipher it that's not what matters I feel it. it's the story consciousness and meaning. but I like to simplify it as yin yang cuz that's just how your girl is 🤓