# Renee & the man

Created: October 17, 2025 11:55 PM
Edited: October 18, 2025 12:15 AM

Eric says “we live in a rotten rotten world.” an old man at a bar spots the gang as they are in undercover. he recognizes them from earlier. 

The man knows he can't contact them, everyone is under constant surveillance even underground. “Hey kid. Green hair. Yeah you.” Eric slowly turns around mortified at what he might encounter. as soon as he recognizes the old man he's never been more relieved to see an old drunken bastard in his life. “you're a good kid. you're spitting truth. keep talking.” Eric angrily walks away and the man pulls out a makeshift revolver and pointed at him “I said… keep talking.” Eric grabs the seat and sits down with the old man. the gang sit close to him to protect him. “money money. that's all I ever hear those fools in the surface ever talk about. money this money solves all the problems money runs in the world I won't kill myself because I've got too much money in the bank! HA! *COUGH. HAHAHA!” suddenly the man yells out loud and laughs frantically almost dying of coughing & laughter. she starts choking and stops laughing when he has his hands around his neck finally Renee gives him a bottle of his rum. “Here ya go you drunk bastard.” Eric angrily yells: “why'd you give that man a drink? He needs water he could have died man! we would have gotten blamed for it.” Renee mocks Eric: “He would have died if I wouldn't have given him that alcohol you dumbass. he's got alcohol running in his system there's nothing we can do about it just keep him here till he's knocked out. ” Eric looks over to the man and realizes he is drowning himself an alcohol. “dudes like him are everywhere under here I only saved his ass because I know him.” the old man angrily stares at Renee. Renee says under his breath: “Keith.” Eric: “you know this guy?” 

“you know, I've seen it all in this world. yeah I've seen it all. those pretty ladies, they ain't nothing but a bunch of plastic little dolls on the outside, they're all rotten on the inside once you get to know em.” *sip* AAAAARGH he violently slams the bottle on the table & wipes his mouth. “money can buy anything money can buy everything! you can buy love relationships friendships you can pay people to pretend to love you hell you can even cheat yourself out of death! some folks are developing that technology you know it's some serious fire they're playing with. but you know the one thing money can't buy?” Renee comes in closer and pays close attention to the old man, as he sips the final drop of rum. “you know what money can't buy? ” He whispers under his horrific breath: “truth.”

“sorry I pulled out a handle on you kid, can't trust no one down here.” Leo talks to himself: “can't trust no one? he's speaking in double negatives… I… I think this guy is a genius… either that or he's as thick-skulled as vin.” Vin shouts from the back: “I heard that.” then walks up to Leo as Riko steps in his way and looks at him angrily. Vin already knows his place. the old man notices and he goes up to them you've got quite the power dynamic here going on! when I was your age I had a little game with me too we used to be up to no good oh but you youngings, you're missing out on the good life.

he starts laughing uncontrollablly, he force pushes his breath, and it is so rancid, Renee rolls his eyes to the back of his head and nearly falls back on his chair, seals his nose shut.