# The Sentinels

Created: October 9, 2025 1:00 AM
Edited: October 9, 2025 1:06 AM

I sentinels were once observers of life. they wanted to record and preserve truth knowledge and emotion. but they soon realized physical mediums we're bound to time, and eventually everything they recorded with disappear. the symptoms realized that writing was the most powerful form of preservation. they wanted to preserve emotion and consciousness and record memory. no technology would suffice because they were all someday disappear. they needed something that was not physical… and that is where they lost themselves in the pursuit of permanence meaning was lost. because if only time itself can give things a meaning it is because we don't live forever that our lives are significant.

however, some sentinels didn't accept this. they wanted to preserve my beyond the limitations of physics. and so, many doctors and scientists came together and created the chemical that could resist the aging of time. the only person of their discoveries where the memories could never be reopened once they were in permanently encoded into the chemical. and the sentinels quickly losing hope decided they should live and transport their consciousness into the chemical itself. they were able to enter the world of the chemical and they were able to sense with full depth their memories. they could sense but not feel. with time, they became immortal beings Frozen within time of the chemical however all meaning and emotion was lost. they again found the answer that they knew all along only within strength of time giving meaning to things.