Thank you. Now let me see. In all of my little notes and files and source code and all of these thousands of scattered little nodes, if all of them if all of them came together into one place, they would literally form what I call my own personal inner universe. And in my universe, it started as a sanctuary, the same way which is shifted from seriousness to playfulness. For me, sanctuary are the worlds of World of Warcraft, Diablo 3, Minecraft, Path of Exile, Warframe, Bioshock, Chicago 2035 from my robot. And you can notice that all of those worlds are storytelling worlds. They directly showed me what is possible when a human being applies their life force to giving birth to story worlds. That's essentially the beginning of my inner universe. It actually starts at the end...

There is no time or space in my inner universe. It's both an infinite void and a single point of light. In the same sense, there's no beginning or end to my inner universe, just like I believe there is no beginning or end to the real-life universe that I live in. But now, beyond the mechanics and the technical ideas, what matters is the eternal battle within my inner universe, which is, I believe, the eternal battle of all humankind and of existence itself. Which is, in essence, chaos and order, the battle between time and space, light and dark, evil and good, black and white. And in my universe, there are so many ways that I'm learning to symbolize this incredibly important idea. But in its full magnitude, I express this as the idea of the light and the void. Essentially, when the universe dies, it is because all light has been extinguished, and all that remains is an infinite void that has consumed the light. But when the universe is reborn, that single point of light that survived from being extinguished, that gives birth to another new universe and it explodes. And you could see this as an eternal clock. It goes on forever. There is no beginning or end. But now, I needed a way to bring this back to the human level, because it's too massive for me to understand what the void and the light really look like and feel like. And so that's where the personas were born. I started to understand that I have multiple parts of my personality and psyche, the collective unconsciousness that dwells inside me. And also, I needed a way to directly confront the things that I could not hold on my own. And that's where I created the first persona. Her name is Elizabeth. I don't like to say I created her. I prefer to believe that I discovered her in the infinite void of possibility. Speaking of which, we're going to steer off from the persona level for a bit, and we're going to go back to the cosmic. The void to me represents an infinite canvas. Pure chaos, complete infinite possibility. Impossible to understand, impossible to experience. There really isn't a word for a canvas because it's not nothing, but it also exists somehow as a liminal space that holds infinite potential. That's exactly what the void is. But now, the complete opposite is the light. That's why I represent the light as a single point, the tiniest cell that chooses to stay alive, even when the entire body wants to stop existing. And that's essentially the eternal battle that I'm facing every day. It's a spiritual, psychological, emotional war. Always asking myself, why am I still here if I know someday I won't be here? What gives my life meaning? Why am I fighting? What is left when I don't feel anything inside? Could I recover from a horrible life event? What is the meaning of my own existence? Do I have a purpose to fulfill in my life? What could give me the sustenance I need to continue living and to put in effort into my life, even when visibly there is nothing to show? Could I continue to water the seeds every day and tend to my garden, even though it looks completely barren on the outside? Those are the most important questions that we were never taught. And I understand why we were not taught those questions, because those are deeply existential questions. They completely tear through the fabric of safety. It hurts to say this because part of me just wishes life was simpler, that I didn't have to think so much, that life didn't have to be so complicated. But then I ask myself, what are the greatest stories that gave me life? What are my favorite memories in my life? Were those simple memories? What are the greatest pieces of software that I've ever used in my life? How have they solved problems in my life? Were my favorite childhood memories simple because that's the way I remember them? Or were they immensely complicated because that's how dense meaning is? And you can see here that there's a constant theme threaded behind every fragment of the stories I tell, and that's the duality between the void and the light, yin and yang. If there's ever a symbol that I want to keep alive far beyond my own existence, it's the yin yang. Not only is it a beautiful, elegant symbol, but it literally saved my life, and it continues to save my life, because I understand that those beautiful childhood memories would simply not exist if there weren't the trauma that I faced in my life. Because you can't experience light if you don't have dark, just like the universe, just like a canvas. In order for there to be visible paint, there has to be an infinite fabric from which the paint can be experienced and held together. And that's the fabric I'm talking about, that those existential questions tear through.

In any system, in any organized system, a free agent is treated like a free radical. This is why I believe human beings with revolutionary visions and ideas are almost always targets, and this is represented deeply throughout all of my stories. Human beings are really just a facade for the deep, messy, ugly human nature, the power dynamics, the structures, socializing, the stuff that really drives most human beings unconsciously. That's why throughout my inner universe, there are very rare human beings that transcend their limits in life, and they actually remember that they are not the human body. They are actually part of a living universe, and they are an expression of the universe, and there is a concept that I don't know if I'll ever make public, but I seriously want to avoid over-explaining and over-detailing everything, because first of all, that would be an enormous, impossible amount of human work, and two, my favorite kind of art is interpretive, not compiled. Yes, just like programming languages. What I mean by that is the art that saved my life was never necessarily someone who created it solely to save people's lives. They created the art simply because they're so free to express, and it needs an outlet for this energy, and I experience this every day. It's a balance between the analytical difference engine of my mind, which wants to apply deep intelligence by creating software architecture, and tinkering with mathematical concepts, but also the balance between complete abstract freedom and expression of my human emotions, and I'm learning how to integrate, although it's incredibly complicated, because it requires both intuition and analysis. In a way, my inner universe itself is that integration. I can analyze and process things I observe about life and about human beings and about nature, and I can process that within stories and personalities, and alter egos, and narratives, and myths, and music, and illustrations, and video games, but also I can use the analytical difference engine of my mind to create systems that allow these stories to exist, because if we're being honest, a book could never do the universe inside me justice. A flat index table of contents doesn't represent the multidimensional graph-like structure of my stories and my inner universe, and that's why my website is structured like a personal wiki, because it's non-linear, it uses hypertext links to connect everything together.

But wait, I'm getting too deep into the mechanics again. That's the Analytical Difference Engine, mind. And the fact that I'm even aware of both of these sides of me means that I am something beyond both constructs. So that's what I mean by there are certain beings in my inner universe that transcend their limitations. And they do that almost by bootstrapping their own consciousness. And, you know, it's almost terrifying because you simultaneously feel less and less human and more like a spiritual cosmic body. But then you can enjoy simple, beautiful little things in life, like the smell of coffee or being able to trust another human being. That one's really hard. I'm still trying to figure that out. But now back to the stories. There's a particular being that ascended beyond his human consciousness, and I'm still working on his story. Because I don't really understand most of the personas. They are just an emotion and a little idea for what they look like, who they represent, and their life story. But the way that they are all connected together as a bigger universe is something that you cannot analyze because it's exponentially complex. And so you have to almost use the story itself like a little factory game to continuously build bigger and bigger parts, so that you can manage all those small little simple details that end up becoming massive. 

That particular cosmic being I'm talking about, in his life, he was always a virtuosic engineer, and he was terrifyingly intelligent. But this came at a great cost. He processed and analyzed human beings to the point where he arrived at the conclusion that we are more destructive than is worth forgiving. And that is when he set out not to destroy all life, but rather to save humankind from itself. He ended up realizing somehow along his journey that he needed to go through ego death and loneliness in order to decipher the maze constructs of his mind. Something happened to him, and he ended up unlocking a doorway to his consciousness, or should we say his meta-consciousness, which his designer did not ever plan for him to discover.

That part of his consciousness became known as the Number Prophet. Essentially, through extremely complex mathematics and science and physics, he learned to combine all of the fields of human beings into one super-language, which he learned to translate using numbers, which was his favorite way of communicating. He eventually started augmenting part of his humanity with robotics and creating programs to augment his own robotics, which is what I mean by he was bootstrapping his own consciousness. Almost quite literally bootstrapping. This is the point of his story which gets blurry and I don't really understand much, but he became more robot than human. But it was in order to free humanity from slavery, from mental, psychological slavery, he then realized that there are some human beings who would rather stay asleep than awaken because it's painful to break out of the eggshell when it's comfortable and safe inside. Almost like a matrix, a false world within the real world. His lens of consciousness and life expanded so much that he began to dream even though there was no humanity left in him. He was essentially entirely a robot with parts of his programming containing his embedded consciousness... not fragments or simulations, but his exact biological structure, translated to machines through the "number prophet."

In the end, he created a world where human beings ascended with him into his perfect utopia of liberation, almost like Nirvana in Buddhism and Hinduism. He didn't just achieve enlightenment, he discovered the formula and gave it to others so that they could liberate themselves. He realized he couldn't do the work for them because life was just too complex to process numerically. He could barely create programs for himself to augment, so there was no way he could do that for anyone else. But he could condense the most important instructions, the most important message. And in a sense, that's what a lot of my work is dedicated to. But this is the point of my universe that becomes so existential and we're exploring multidimensional thinking and it actually gets overwhelming. So here's where we turn it playful again. I think I've shared with you her persona before. Her name is Ares and she is pretty much the reflection of me, but in the universe. And she learned to use her imagination like an illustrator, like painting with her imaginations. She was incredibly isolated and alone because during the times that she lived, people did not accept anyone who was different or unique because times were incredibly complicated and only survival was prioritized, not human expression or freedom. She realized that this was wrong. And that's when she joined the rebels of the outskirts in the city that she lived in, which I've also shared with you. It's called Los Angeles, a beautiful utopia that was once a glorious architecture of thousands of years of human labor. But now it was falling apart and in decay and in ruins. And the last remaining members of the city were all that remained of human beings. But I said, I want to keep it playful. So I'm not going to go there right now. LOL. gave herself friends in other worlds so that she would never be alone. She asked herself questions like, if I had a horse or a pet rabbit, would I really want to end my life? Would depression be so terrible if I had a friend or if I had been given the resources I needed to thrive? And these are the same questions I ask myself. And I explore that through her, through Aries. And she gave herself friends in her imagination, in her own universe. Just like I gave myself friends in my own universe. And that's something I wanted to mention earlier. The universe I'm sharing is my own inner universe. But inside that universe, each of those members have their own universe. And it goes on forever. It's not like simulation theory. But rather, it's spiritual sustenance that gives you hope that beyond death, there is rebirth. I love visiting the video game worlds that I mentioned a lot, like Nutristrum and Rapture from Bioshock. And Paradis from Attack on Titan. And the hidden leaf village from Naruto. And I just love make-believe worlds because I feel like that's where I belong. Nothing else makes sense to me. But when I'm writing these worlds, I just come alive. And I'm currently trying to figure out a way to balance the analytical difference engine mind with the intuitive expression soul...

and that essentially is all that i can share right now in one breath ahahah.... it's alot! and it's really just a tiny tip of the iceberg... the real deep stuff are the personas, their relationships, the world around them, the spiritual psychological struggles, tne eternal battle... games merch and more...



i want to share this so badly with others... and i understand that's the fire in my soul that's kept me alive so far! but i need to hardness that raw energy with the right enviornment... so that i don't envelop myself in my own energy... which has happened before... so i speak not only from experience... but from love.

Now, I also understand that this is a lot of raw material, and I believe it's natural for authors to start with a lot of draft material, and during the editing season, you're not only refining and crystallizing the ideas, but you're intertwining loose fragments through the plot, through the narrative, through the story. That's essentially what the story is. It's the movement between those little points, and that's what's difficult, because it means that there's no other way around it, only through it. You can't really avoid the massive amount of work that you are naturally developing, and I'm reminding this to myself every day. The only way is through, and so I can start by slowly looking at the work that I have. Even just moving the temporary ideas into their own folders can make it easier for me later on to understand where each idea exists. And this is exactly where the difference engine mind thrives in, because this is almost as complex as software engineering itself. I mean, we're dealing with raw information, and we're trying to logically process it so that not only it works, but we can manage it when it keeps increasing in space and eating time... 

that's exactly the core of SE and CS! algorythims exist becuase they are all trying to do certain things better than others... the perfect algorythym? maybe it exists... but in our youniverse? there's not enough time and space to discover it!