Fascinating discoveries for the month of May 2026

1. Everything is a transformation of input, process and output. (Hypothesis) A cycle. That is the fundamental model of all integrated living things.
2. our ancestors lived in a dangerous world full of predators and danger, and constant life threatening situations. that is the hardware we still have today. if we do not experience life gardening danger, it is because we live in the state of the art.
3. learning is only possible because of a feedback in error. so this is crucial to understand because it means we only learn as much as our reaction to life. 
4. The human being requires a reason for action, just like Nietzsche said She who has a wide compared almost any how."

5. system release is the most important transformation stage of the human experience. whether you are a polymath archetype, a creative archetype, or an unmapped archetype, are biological necessities are system release. 
6. thinking might not be the problem, thought itself is already a process transformation of information as input. I hypothesize the source of the issue we face today, of which the polymaths experience at extreme , unsustainable scale, is it input overload. our ancestors used to think all the time, perhaps more than us today. we emphasize that thought alone is not sufficient for the flourishing of human life. the thought is our most organic programmable machine, built into us. imagination, dreams. these are the natural processes through which we can manipulate the symbolic world, imagine possibility, solve problems, dream of lives worth living, plan, . this is where the term shower thoughts comes from, it's actually a subconscious process through which, the subconscious drivers of the human self, actively sculpt problems that are prioritized.
7. this might become more tangible if we express practical models of system release. such as expression, dancing, martial arts, music, singing. for some it is channeling rage, or irritability, for others it is simply having a canvas to express tragic experiences. for others it is simply sharing beauty, or connecting with a whole, greater than the sum of its parts.
8. dancing is literally a form of system toxic release. Dancing is a form is system release pressure, allowing the biological low-level drivers of the human to release pressure, such as in extreme rage or irritability (i chronically experience these) through a combination of: martial arts, dance, music, rage, and system release. In other words, when the human being is enraged, the physical component is punching. Dancing allows constructive expression of rage, which would otherwise be catastrophically destructive.
9. There is a correlation for every problem (x) with a set of transformations (t, transformers, tools). This means every problem has a transformation solution or reduction of chaos.
10. programming is an example of a biological phenomenon of bootstrapping and instruction processing. in which the human is both the author and the executor. the belief set can be described as the organic version of a computer compiler. it is not essentially the program, rather it is the meta program, the rules which must be obeyed. 
11. of the biological organic programs, purpose, meaning, and reason, and drive immediate action above all others. practically speaking, for every action there must be an adequate reason / motivation. the human being cannot operate under uncertainty, and action without reason becomes momentum without direction, unstable and volatile, dangerous to the human being.
12. the above might possibly explain why the brain lies to itself. the human being is not merely the brain, so how is it possible for the brain to run prediction models, which are not falsifiable? for example, today I didn't want to go outside, all it took was dancing and system release, for me to understand, this doesn't have to be so complicated. being outside is part of the integrated balanced life. it's an example of the brain forcing a close loop, almost out of self-preservation. although this area is incredibly blurry and difficult to understand. more research is required.
13. we cannot control time, so we can influence our presumption of time. which influences are ability to make a decisions, and other time domain bound abilities of the human being. 
14. theory of evolutionary power and optimality. in essence, I believe we should not be introducing new tools before we fundamentally understand our current strata of operation. this is not mean we have to perfectly comprehend granular details. rather, we satisfice until it is viable to build on top of the current structure of understanding. in this sense, we remove the ambiguity of understanding as a cognitive invisible ability, and we understand it as a structural progressive ability, like cognitive architecture, an architect of cognition. the architect does not inspect at the atomic level of materials, rather the architect looks at structures as a whole, and stress tests the structural integrity of compositions of components, (pillars, walls, beams, etc.) until they are reliable enough to be built on. this, structural integrity, a single-handedly the only reason we have architecture as we know it today. 