?: "who would bring a child to this world? It's rotten."

Lawrence exclaims passionately: "that is precisely the reason why we must introduce new beings, to solve the world's greatest problems!"

This paints an approximation of the full image of the human experience, which is neither nihilistic suffering nor hedonic pleasure... It's something approximating Frederich Nietzsche said about the existence of human flourishing, which is the human being is something that wants to exhaust itself, in existence and being and transformation. And that's probably one of the most accurate descriptions in philosophy that I've ever encountered. because it encapsulates the duality of the experience as experience. 

As far as philosophy is concerned, this might be the most useful of any idea we can conceive of, because philosophy often benefits from intellectualism detached from the real conditions of human living. but something that explains both suffering and experience is immensely useful... because now we no longer have a compartmentalized vision of human existence, but we have a unifying cohesive model which centers at the source, a sort of gravity which is existence. We human beings ache for existence itself. It's most notably understood when we are deprived of existence. when we are deprived of food or relationships, or tragically life itself, but human being almost starves of the very thing keeping it alive, which is to be alive to exist and exhaust itself in becoming. That's essentially what Frederick niche said. do we want these Okay maybe they're not that good maybe they're not that good This is