the day I chose not to go outside on friday, I regretted that so much.

from what I learned is that, living the integrated life is the only thing that keeps me sane. but the actual mechanics of an integrated life are even more important to understand. arguably these are the building blocks of my personal integrated life. 

I remember the reason I didn't go on friday. Although I experienced horrific brain fog and stress and almost a nervous breakdown, where I let my split personalities Express through me. that was probably one of the most significant lessons I've learned this week; those voices are only imagination. as soon as I give them a body or even a voice to speak through, it's almost like the persona, my integrated executive boss girl self, loses her ability to embody. that's extremely dangerous, when and the fragmented part of the psyche have control, rather than bubbling up to the surface via reactive situations.

I remember why I didn't go outside on friday, I feel like I don't have time for anything. as soon as I tried coding or writing, time had already passed by. one of the nasty little voices in my head was like, "you think you have time to do work? of course not! that's why you're stuck in your life, to can't focus! to can't just live an integrated life and expect the story to write itself! things take time! and look at you, all or if time and you did nothing!"

it's so strange because it isn't just a split personality, it seems to be bound to my emotions. when I'm irritable, or angry, or cynical, or resentful or better, those are extremely toxic emotions, and I don't dwell on them. but for some reason on Friday I realized how little time I really have. how little time energy effort and attention I really have. and if I misuse it, based on the logic of these parts of me, I won't progress anything meaningfully enough to share it. on other words; great potential, wasted because you couldn't focus or finish your work. [principia-polymatheca](principia-polymatheca.md)