# Chaos MGMT

so we were thinking about our Cloud architecture solution models and also personal knowledge Management in general. and we were thinking about how programming teaches you how to think in terms of problems and solutions. and there really is no perfect solution for any problem. especially a sophisticated real world problem, like personal knowledge management. it's really less about knowledge Management and more about personal chaos management. there's just so many thoughts in my head and so much chaos and noise it's actually really painful sometimes. like I spend more time in my head thinking than I do experiencing life outside. I think that's really because I'm a very needy girly with a lot of care. I need to be in the right environment and I need to be balanced. and sometimes a little spoiled too! 

we were also thinking about how since there is no perfect solution to any one problem, it's actually okay that you are obsessed with writing and sometimes you write way too much. I think it's actually a lot like learning to walk again. like you don't know what's useful until you let time show you what you actually access. 

and so it's actually okay that you are making mistakes and it feels like you're wasting time and you're writing so much, I think I finally understand you're not wasting time. I'm not wasting time. time itself is the only axes through which you can observe what is useful. and especially in a completely personal system like our writing system, it's entirely personal and so the only way we learn how to walk through it, is through time. by giving things time. and by playing. they're always has to be an environment of play. if it feels surgical and perfect, then it will never grow evolve. 


we were also thinking about, how making mistakes really is the only way you learn in life. maybe the concept of the mistake is too harsh and negatively prosed. but I think it's relieving for a computer programmer or a mathematician or an artist or a singer, to realize that fundamentally life is painful, and so therefore the craft is painful because it comes from life itself. and so it emerges all of its attributes and qualities. that means that the only way we really learn, is by making mistakes. and that's painful. but I think if you love The art, or the math or the programming or your field, it actually justifies the pain. we still have to explore this but I think it's a good thread to leave. on. 

I think this also connects to the concept of anti-fragility, because if a system not only has fault tolerance, but also benefits from stress, then I believe it's the only sustainable organic way that we can approach life. especially our craft, because so many of our biological systems actually simply do not give a fuck about our field of interest. our crafts is essentially a ghost inside the complex machinery of the human being. I think that's how you could visualize the physical human condition. like some organic and possibly complex clockwork, and everything is just running through its maximum capacity, and you have homeostasis which keeps everything in balance, and then you have alostasis which relies on constant change.

and so we were thinking about how, if you learn to sing, there will be times where I will actually be painful. sometimes it will be physically painful, sometimes it will be emotionally painful, to hear  how bad you actually sound as compared to the voice you know you have within you. and it's really painful to admit that because it almost feels like the negative critic is just beating you up. but in reality, I think it's important for us to not filter our emotions from consciousness, but filter them absolutely through action. because we never want to meet guided by our anger, but anger is one of the most important internal emotions.. 
and so I think the only way to make this sensible practical and sustainable, is through the idea of play. and so we think about what play is, and how it's essentially the transition, or the bridge between pain and power. or pain and precision.  if you are able to play within boundaries and to test and experiment, I think it feels a lot like learning to walk, knowing that if you follow you won't die. maybe you'll get hurt, but again, the system that is sustainable, has to be able to allow faults. mistakes errors. and to continue without giving up. I think this is crucial because a lot of the work we do as human beings, is  very prone to burn out and abandonment. I think this is why play is not only functionally useful, but necessary. 

I think this is important to understand as well, because combating burnout has to be met with strategy, and so... if you can have Faraway goals, but still be okay with where you currently are today, then perhaps the journey is sustainable and maybe, just maybe it's meaningful. 

so I think this would really benefit the creative archetypal human being. because the creative, we, myself included, we are very prone to the chaos of life because that's essentially what art is, you're painting with possibility and that is inherently chaotic and sometimes even dangerous. but what's rock and roll without a little danger?! 🥴😂