# Constraint Theory 
so we were just realizing that one of our biggest childhood / teenage sources of joy and inspiration, was building cities in minecraft. and we realized, as an adult, why it was so joyful. it's an integration between creative and experience it's the artist archetype. and essentially the reason Minecraft work so well, is because it's structure is essentially the favorite kind of environment for creative expression. because it's constrained, it's walkable, it's a video game, but it's also slow in therapeutic. you have to place every single block. with the exception of modern tools on Java edition, Minecraft on console, was severely limited and slow. let me that means that you had to be very invested and immersed, in your city project and you also had to have a balance of ambition and energy. while we never completed a big enough City for it to be immersive, the way our inspiration sources on YouTube where, that Joy of walking through a city and real life and imagining reconstructing it, that feeling never gets old. 

and so we were thinking, how come with modern tools like blender, it's still difficult to build? and fundamentally for the artist creative archetype how come it's difficult? and I think it's because you can compare the structural function and environment of blender, as compared to the constraint tools of minecraft. the main function of Minecraft is that you hold the block in your hand and you place it exactly where you're looking at. I think that is somatically much more in tune with how the human being builds things in real life. with tools like blender you feel like a detached a ghost, looking at the artifacts of computational architecture, in 3D space. and that's just a really awkward feeling. it feels much more clinical and architectural than it feels like building the stuff of your dreams. but then we think about this, could you apply the concept of this theory, to anything creative in your life? I think these are patterns that appear absolutely everywhere. so when we metabolize more of this...

