I was just watching a YouTube video of a dog helping a human being who was suffering with depression. and I just realized just how important and life-saving a animal companion can truly be. because if there is a life threatening condition such as untreated depression, you essentially cannot be left alone. how many times I wish I could have had a dog with me, even if there was no one to take care of me when I was deeply depressed and ill. I did the very best for myself, the way a mother who loves her child. but I also realize that I wish I would have had someone there for me. 

I think maybe at least a doggy would have been so... healing... I know taking care of a dog as a responsibility but they are like a living teddy bear with a soul. dogs actually are highly emotionally intelligent depending on breed. I just wish I would have been easier to have had a dog growing up. I can almost guarantee that I would have suffered far less psychological suffering, if I would have had a pet companion. I mean I had several plushies and teddy bears which helped me soothe my overwhelming sensory overload issues... but that's not a dog...

so I think it would be really important for Katarina to have a dog. pet companions are a huge component of life, and it really adds life to their stories. I think Katarina would have loved to have a pet husky. their eyes are so beautiful and they are basically no dogs, closer to wolves and domesticated dogs. so they act as both a guard dog and emotional support. 

the longer I live and the more suffering I endure, the more I have to love myself and the more I have to envision my child's self, because sometimes it's hard to even have faith in God. and God is really my only hope in this life. if it weren't for my faith in God... I literally would not exist.