# analysis of Serena's life story
there are two conclusions when analyzing Serena's life, one, is the default reaction. I actually feel demoralized when I think about how Serena only wanted to help reduce human suffering. she just wanted to help people, and she ended up dying because she loved too much. now I must makes you ask, is the game rigged? no. no it is not. there is no game that we're playing. sometimes evil people get away with evil things. sometimes good people don't get justice. but sometimes evil people get justice, sometimes good people do get justice. I think it's important to realize that it's not useful to conclude that life is meaningless just because of what we can see. there is so much unseen and invisible part of life and things that we will never understand as human beings. and so that only leaves us with one answer, faith. both face and fear are mechanics in which the human being must trust what is not known, what is not processable through our cognition. we actually have a very limited working memory, and as far as we've studied about human nature, we are mostly supposed to explore forest and savannah's, local motive abilities. so one questioning the purpose of the universe, it's almost comically absurd because that's exactly what it is! we're not supposed to be asking what a quasar is, I think we're supposed to be looking within the human self and looking at the micro universe, and figuring out what the inner quasar is. and so looking at Serena's life through this lens, rather than the macro lens, we look at her life through the micro lens and we determine that even though life contains cruelty and injustice, it also contains so many miracles that we did not fight for. like the world we live in is not just a static system of rules and laws and structures. history and human suffering and love and joy, is embedded into the world we live in today. cities would not exist if it weren't for the sacrifice of so many... 

editor notes, okay this is getting way too existential we need to actually speak about how the world we live in today is because soldiers on the nurses and people give their heart even though it feels like it's rigged or something. even though the default emotion is demoralization, the second reaction is much more difficult because it requires faith in the unknown. faith that life ultimately isn't meaningless. and that Serena was operating at the wrong scope of life. she was looking at all of human suffering through the macro-scope rather than looking at our local space. in fact it's such an important concept that I learned while surviving depression and nihilism and existentialism, that we actually gave this a theory name, [the local Maxima]()

when looking at the universe as a whole, suffering is unbearable. when looking at the universe inside yourself, at the individual level, we realize that it is just as expansive and complicated and chaotic as the universe outside. but yet it lives inside us. it's a mirror. I'm really, that's one of our only choices. perspective. attitude. belief. as painfully mundane as it may sound, it's one of the only sources of agency that actually makes a difference in the human life.